RETURN 
OF THE 
JEDI

by
Lawrence Kasdan
&
George Lucas

From The Novel
by
George Lucas

Third Draft

Property of Lucasfilm Ltd.


Completion Date December 1, 1981

1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the√ävile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER    (filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD  (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO   (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO   (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES 
ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as 
they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts 
partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the 
room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating 
crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a 
repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the 
horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At 
the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS 
CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba 
laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows 
politely.

THREEPIO
Good morning.

JABBA
Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned 
villain.

THREEPIO
The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, 
creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten 
feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke 
Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are 
powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's 
life. 
(Jabba's crowd laughs) 
With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which 
will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant 
confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: 
these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO
What did he say?

LUKE  (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he 
is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. 
Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a 
carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, 
shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable 
creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm 
or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps 
pitifully.

THREEPIO
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? 
He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break 
free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

10   INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy 
machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are 
met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can 
be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work 
droid. A second power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons 
are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized 
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-
9D9.

NINEDENINE
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE
Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO
Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE
How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can 
readily...

NINEDENINE
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got 
angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO
Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE      (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining 
bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO   (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps 
angrily.

NINEDENINE
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have 
need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in 
nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured 
electronic scream.

11   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous 
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a 
fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons 
Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, 
shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA
Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA
Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the 
floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a 
muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous 
friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her 
fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han 
Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.√äAn 
unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the 
room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two 
guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his 
captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into 
his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens 
intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a 
greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH     (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to 
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh 
listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices 
BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the 
reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH     (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the 
raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his 
weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the 
throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio 
looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The 
droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the 
room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the 
bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba 
stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across 
his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his 
reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes 
dead.

BOUSHH
Zeebuss.

THREEPIO
He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and 
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca 
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a 
skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing 
girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly 
appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the 
scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across 
the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling 
his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When 
a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes 
against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. 
It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming 
the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the 
iron door.

13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in 
front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert 
rodent and burps in satisfaction.

14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien 
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several 
drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of 
the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his 
way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his 
coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter 
deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of 
the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the 
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches 
and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization 
lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the 
contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches 
as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, 
previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His 
face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath 
of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he 
begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN
I can't see.

BOUSHH
Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN
Where am I?

BOUSHH
Jabba's palace.

HAN
Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, 
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA
Someone who loves you.

HAN
Leia!

LEIA
I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is 
pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN
What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the 
Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his 
gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I 
got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN
Look...

JABBA      (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. 
Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead 
Leia away.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young 
princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly 
turns away in disgust.

LEIA
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly 
blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA
Ugh!

THREEPIO
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

15   INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A 
guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door 
slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack 
in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is 
heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell 
door and listens.

HAN
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting 
him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, 
revealing Chewie.

HAN
Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less 
rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets 
delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

16   INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT 
and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a 
robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke 
strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block 
Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately 
lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and 
moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they 
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his 
direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the 
conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE
I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and 
stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE
You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him 
into the gloom.

LUKE
You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE
And you will be rewarded.

17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. 
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now 
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a 
manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. 
Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB
Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE
I must be allowed to speak.

BIB   (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either 
profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not 
to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about 
the pit.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies 
into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his 
hand.

JABBA
Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into 
the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba 
laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained 
by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at 
him and he shakes his head "no."

18   INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the 
dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically 
for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in 
the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. 
Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged 
RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries 
futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the 
Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few 
screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers 
and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just 
ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of 
an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his 
salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the 
monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in 
rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an 
avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes 
into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the 
holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility 
door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into 
the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it 
down on the Rancor's finger.

19   HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding 
cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he 
succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond 
the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the 
monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The 
guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, 
laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for 
him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. 
As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the 
cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes 
crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on 
an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation 
at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning 
red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh 
commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

21   INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead 
beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly 
at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel 
and take Luke away.

22   INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into 
the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE
Han!

HAN
Luke!

LUKE
Are you all right?

HAN
Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE
Wouldn't miss it.

HAN
How are we doing?

LUKE
The same as always.

HAN
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA
I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia 
like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from 
the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed 
that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN
Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of 
Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN   (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as 
you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever 
make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer 
rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but 
Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by 
two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, 
Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is 
Lando in disguise.

HAN
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a 
big light blur.

LUKE
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN
Oh... great!

24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His 
entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. 
Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to 
her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to 
him.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller 
droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby 
droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. 
They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO
Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

25   EXT SARLACC PIT 

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one 
side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's 
skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of 
the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by 
thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is 
extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's 
bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward 
and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps 
up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of 
intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across 
loudspeakers.

THREEPIO
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die 
honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba 
the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

27   EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get 
no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look 
of conspiracy to him.

28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips 
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as 
he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. 
Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the 
plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a 
jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap 
opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA      (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

30   EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the 
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is 
happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his 
fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him 
skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of 
the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He 
casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has 
sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded 
him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The 
other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber 
flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

31   EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and 
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him 
and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

32   INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the 
guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures 
watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

33   EXT SKIFF 

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of 
the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE
Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts 
from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of 
the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately 
above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO
Whoa! Whoa! Help!

34   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket 
pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

35   EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who 
has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, 
the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty 
hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck 
gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the 
rail.

HAN
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN
I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a 
cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong 
cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from 
the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight 
up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable 
and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is 
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO
Han! Chewie?

HAN
Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets 
him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves 
in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young 
Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating 
the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, 
guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. 
Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold 
of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the 
other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his 
arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand 
whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts 
off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the 
side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams 
as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into 
the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a 
weak congratulations to Han.

36   INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and 
throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous 
neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the 
chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath 
the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his 
scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms 
through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia 
struggles to free herself of her bondage.

37   EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han 
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously 
from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN
Lando, grab it!

LANDO
Lower it!

HAN
I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han 
and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, 
and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot 
catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. 
The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit 
from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han 
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the 
pit.

HAN
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck 
gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the 
skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail 
Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up 
the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his 
head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks 
the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who 
is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron 
has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by 
lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand 
moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let 
go of the spear.

LANDO
Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly 
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO
No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate 
fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and 
Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

38   EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in 
their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: 
Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. 
The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young 
Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more 
gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) 
racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips 
through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby 
little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and 
screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out 
one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, 
crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye 
dangling from a wire) hurry off.

40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by 
guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke 
turns to face another guard.

LUKE  (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels 
the gun around.

LUKE
Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, 
but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the 
guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He 
flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves 
as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, 
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she 
has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE
Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers 
Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun 
explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

41   EXT SKIFF  

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. 
Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO
We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge 
craft is on fire.

42   EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next 
to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff 
floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. 
With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled 
from the sand.

43   EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues 
its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the 
barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

44   EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR 
THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, 
pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed 
by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each 
supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his 
wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It 
is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing 
and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA
That's all any of us can see.

HAN   (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind 
dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. 
Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN  (turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE  (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest 
thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide 
awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, 
mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE      (moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN       
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's 
betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the 
rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA
He means "You're welcome."

LANDO
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and 
peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and 
grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the 
canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM 
FALCON.

LUKE
I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA  (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE
I will.

HAN   (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of 
Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black 
glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a 
promise to keep... to an old friend.

46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in 
space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, 
Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward 
the Death Star.

47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous 
Death Star commander.

48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth 
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where 
the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and 
create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention 
with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a 
rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way 
down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak 
similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's 
face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow 
eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme 
Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR    (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way 
along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay 
kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several 
Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the 
procession.

VADER
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue 
your search for young Skywalker.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, 
you must bring him
before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the 
dark side of the
Force.

VADER
As you wish.

EMPEROR
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 
troops.

49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of 
the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps 
disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm 
yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

50   INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of 
the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that 
clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. 
His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look 
has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE
No... of course not.

YODA  (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do!  Sick have I become. Old and weak. 
(Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE
Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me 
and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE
Then I am a Jedi?

YODA  (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, 
only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his 
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile 
creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE
Yoda, I must know.

YODA
Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA
Told you, did he?

LUKE
Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE
Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA       (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your 
training. Not
ready for the burden were you.

LUKE
Well, I'm sorry.

YODA
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  But beware.  Anger, 
fear, aggression.
The dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark path, forever 
will it dominate your
destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, 
or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I
(cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your 
family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... 
(with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green 
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears 
in front of his eyes.

51   EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, 
but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to 
help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN   (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be 
Anakin Skywalker
and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your 
father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a 
certain point of view.

LUKE  (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend 
greatly on our own
point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it 
certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN
Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a 
stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was 
amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to 
train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well 
as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the 
galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE
There's still good in him.

BEN
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be 
done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE
I can't do it, Ben.

BEN
You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience 
was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value 
of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you 
could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE
But I had to help my friends.

BEN   (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved 
little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE  (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side 
- the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest 
door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what 
he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're 
no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, 
you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE
I can't kill my own father.

BEN
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE
Yoda spoke of another.

BEN
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE
But I have no sister.

BEN
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your 
father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the 
reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE
Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They 
do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN   (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep 
you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.  So I took you 
to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia 
to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN   (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in 
that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew 
she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, the family 
continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster 
father's path, became a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the 
corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a 
vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what she 
was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had 
always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became 
desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his 
sister.

LUKE
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, 
Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your 
family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 
Vader!

52   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a 
dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and 
battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the 
HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

53   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in 
the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a 
holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the 
nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern 
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several 
military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a 
salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he 
finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN
Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO
 Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the 
battle of Taanab.

HAN   (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I 
didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO      (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN
Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable 
one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has 
come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the 
Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the 
center of the room.

MON MOTHMA
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location 
of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon 
systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial 
Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is 
relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that 
the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the 
construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia 
as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA      (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field 
and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. 
Although the weapon
systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does 
have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, 
which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield 
must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield 
is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly 
into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR     (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN
Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN
You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR
General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and 
using a secret
Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the 
shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO
Sounds dangerous.

LEIA  (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him.

HAN
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN   (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA
Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE      (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more 
cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and 
Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him 
and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA
 What is it?

LUKE  (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN
Luke.

LUKE
Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO
"Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which 
looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. 
Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up 
the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and 
supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-
byes and start up the ramp.

HAN
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the 
help you can get. She's
the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take 
good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN   (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO
Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO
Good luck.

HAN
You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the 
pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out 
all the Imperial controls.

HAN
You got her warmed?

LUKE
Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed 
her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on 
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him 
gently.

LEIA
Hey, are you awake?

HAN
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the 
Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA  (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, 
everybody?

LUKE
All set.

THREEPIO
Here we go again.

HAN
All right, hang on.

56   EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the 
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms 
off into space.

57   INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at 
the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair 
before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death 
Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, 
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After 
several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER
What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until 
called for.

VADER
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young 
Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go 
out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks 
toward the waiting council members.

58   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction 
proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star 
Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces 
itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

59   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. 
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star 
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty 
quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER      (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER      (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN
Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed 
transmission begins.

LEIA
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN
It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer 
that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE
Vader's on that ship.

HAN
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep 
your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep 
your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN
I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out 
the window.

60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. 
Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment 
of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL 
PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen 
earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER
Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT      (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER
Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT
Shall I hold them?

VADER
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT      (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER      (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. 
Follow your
present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks 
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

63   EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, 
primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a 
steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The 
troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio 
bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly 
to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke 
crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering 
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked 
nearby.

LEIA
Shall we try and go around?

HAN
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie 
start quietly down.

64   EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far 
from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN   (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. 
Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout 
whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1
Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie 
gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to 
crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE  (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol 
drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where 
two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied 
bike parked nearby.

LEIA
Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE
I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She 
starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE  (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely 
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN
Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

65   EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia 
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from 
their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE
Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer 
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, 
slowing the scout.

LUKE
Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their 
steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of 
the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him 
off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike 
and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the 
remaining scout.

LUKE
Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing 
into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser 
cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a 
glancing hit.

LUKE  (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into 
the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as 
they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and 
starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a 
manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted 
out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into 
turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom 
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and 
rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia 
dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes 
a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches 
down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has 
blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike 
explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. 
But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a 
giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a 
conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue 
their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The 
scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a 
bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top 
and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a 
wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside 
him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all 
his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able 
to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the 
scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are 
moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and 
dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's 
explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find 
Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and 
opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and 
begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it 
appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, 
Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty 
slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, 
it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

66   EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait 
anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed 
head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's 
too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN
Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE  (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN
I thought she was with you.

LUKE
We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE
Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN
Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE
Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the 
squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO
Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO   (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

67   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA
Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA
I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here 
is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

LEIA
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia 
pats the log again.

LEIA
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA
All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the 
log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning 
to Leia.

LEIA
What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears 
underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL 
SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l
Freeze!  Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

SCOUT #1
Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2
Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. 
Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once 
more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
Leia with√änew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

LEIA
Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and 
tugs at Leia to follow him.

68   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private 
elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER        
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the 
Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD
(repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

69   INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens 
to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It 
appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He 
waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark 
Lord.

EMPEROR
I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR    (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER      (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR    (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER
I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are 
clear, Lord
Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER
They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER      (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will 
come to you and
then you will bring him before me.

VADER      (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move 
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. 
Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN   (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage 
of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO
Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN   (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off 
through the foliage.

                              HAN
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, 
Artoo whistles nervously.

71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a 
tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from 
it.

HAN
Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN   (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE
Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. 
SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, 
suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of 
beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a 
jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this 
thing. 
(trying to free an arm) 
Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN
Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting 
appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an 
arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to 
spin.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-
op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, 
crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they 
realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long 
spear.

HAN
Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok 
warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. 
He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN
Hey!

LUKE
Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets 
them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free 
of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among 
themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok 
nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In 
a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled 
bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks 
begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE
Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO
Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am fluent in over six million 
forms of
communication.

HAN
What are you telling them?

THREEPIO
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive 
dialect.  But
I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange 
"what next?" looks.

HAN
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN
Proper?!

THREEPIO
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN
Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their 
god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a 
menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 
placatingly.

HAN
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

72   EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their 
prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and 
wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the 
captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the 
remaining creatures.

73   EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the 
giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into 
nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts 
and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes 
hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other 
Ewoks follow suit.

74   EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks 
gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the 
newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is 
placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others 
are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently 
placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and 
Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN
I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes 
out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join 
Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A 
larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber 
with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing 
to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit 
under Han with firewood.

HAN
What did he say?

THREEPIO
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the 
main course at a
banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. 
Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening 
at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE
Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA
Oh!

THREEPIO
Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the 
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads 
negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks 
some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue 
with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry 
and use your magic.

THREEPIO
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE
Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps 
forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to 
concentrate.

THREEPIO
You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the 
ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! 
Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio 
begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio 
calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! 
Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and 
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group 
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at 
him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. 
Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. 
When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo 
beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, 
finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The 
Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group 
of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and 
marveling at his height.

THREEPIO
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE
Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO   (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, 
creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a 
group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. 
The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the 
two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's 
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally 
murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the 
Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, 
mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. 
Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable 
in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han 
Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in 
agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer 
and screeches.

HAN
What's going on?

LEIA
I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something 
passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not 
notice.

THREEPIO
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN
Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket 
clings to Han's leg.

HAN   (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. 
(to Wicket) 
Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield 
generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders 
outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try 
and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN   (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

76   EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and 
flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft 
night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands 
staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA
Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE
What do you remember?

LEIA
Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE
Tell me.

LEIA
(a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE
Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA  (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. 
That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA
Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE
He's my father.

LEIA
Your father?

LUKE
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I 
don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and 
could never have.

LUKE
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to 
use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has 
it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she 
doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE
Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA
I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE
Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave 
this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE
No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA
But, why must you confront him?

LUKE
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to 
the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I 
have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He 
disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed 
in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and 
comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only 
now that she is crying.

HAN
Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN   (angry)
Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA
I...I can't tell you.

HAN   (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA
I...

HAN
Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN
I'm sorry.

LEIA
Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands 
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of 
the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks 
particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into 
an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward 
another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, 
in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with 
complete calm.

COMMANDER
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I 
believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct 
a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER
He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the 
lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his 
companions to me.

COMMANDER
Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone 
in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest 
filter in upon them.

VADER
The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE
I know, father.

VADER
So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER      (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there 
is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is 
why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your 
Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved 
hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER      (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, 
brilliant blade.

VADER
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has 
foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE
Come with me.

VADER
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER
If that is your destiny.

LUKE
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict 
within you. Let go
of your hate.

VADER
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature 
of the Force. He is
your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring 
at one another for a long moment.

LUKE
Then my father is truly dead.

79   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, 
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield 
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing 
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that 
landing platform. This
isn't gonna be easy.

HAN
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily 
guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 
Threepio.

LEIA
What's he saying?

THREEPIO
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

80   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star 
Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a 
spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some 
getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando 
speaks into his comlink.

LANDO
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR    (VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down 
on time...
(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR     (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO
All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then 
Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS 
INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and 
Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is 
spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that 
leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes 
parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an 
observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN
Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN   (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN   (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks 
chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers 
into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA
Quiet.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA
Oh, no.

84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial 
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto 
one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at 
random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. 
Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 
surprise.

85   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN  (sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

86   EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into 
motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT
Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away 
in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

87   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. 
We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. 
Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO
I have decided that we shall stay here.

88   EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, 
but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him 
and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds 
a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the 
trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the 
still-flying, unoccupied bike.

89   EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the 
shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms 
of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps 
out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out 
of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No 
sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout 
behind.

90   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk 
across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side 
by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down 
at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR
You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders 
fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, 
free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR
Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR    (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call 
me Master.

LUKE
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. 
The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can 
perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are 
mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER
His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's 
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know 
your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with 
you.

LUKE
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE
Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR
Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER
It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR    (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. 
(indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR    (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who 
allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It 
is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword 
in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when 
your friends arrive.

91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and 
enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. 
Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN
Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more 
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at 
the door.

THREEPIO   (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into 
the forest.

THREEPIO
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial 
commander enters.

COMMANDER
Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them 
and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. 
Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. 
Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the 
Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The 
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the 
space armada bears down on its target.

93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO
All wings report in.

WEDGE
Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER
Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER
Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE
Lock S-foils in attack positions.

94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar 
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR
May the Force be with us.

95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to 
the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up 
or down. Well, how
could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the 
implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his 
comlink.

LANDO
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER      (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO
Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the 
Death Star move off right.

96   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid 
the unseen wall.

97   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes 
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the 
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to 
Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive 
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR
It's a trap!

LANDO      (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an 
armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in 
and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT
There's too many of them!

LANDO
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

98   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the 
distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR
Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. 
Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and 
the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest 
of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the 
lightsaber.

EMPEROR
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your 
Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to 
your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my 
servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE
No!

EMPEROR
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now 
mine!

99   EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the 
bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now 
crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial 
troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps 
and whistles. 
And --

THREEPIO
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER
Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER
Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six 
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids 
duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER
Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO
We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting 
quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a 
band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK 
ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their 
fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and 
their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting 
Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the 
trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for 
the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes 
to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA
The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN
Here's the terminal.

LEIA  (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround 
them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of 
whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, 
runs after him.

THREEPIO
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? 
No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the 
little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They 
fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns 
and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks 
abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker 
moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge 
logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's 
foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged 
behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts 
round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between 
two trees.

100  EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat 
with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the 
Rebel armada.

101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT
Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel 
squads.

LANDO
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO
Got it!

RED THREE
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical 
frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at 
the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR
Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO
Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers 
are waiting for.

102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET  

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the 
battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of 
the fleet.

103  INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge 
window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER
We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT
Hold here.

COMMANDER
We're not going to attack?

PIETT
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special 
planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

104  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle 
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship 
explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now 
witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle 
station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the 
Rebel fleet beyond.

105  INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands 
over them.

JERJERROD
Fire!

106  INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded 
Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of 
light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side 
at a control panel.

107  EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to 
glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

108  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings 
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is 
hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE 
fighters.

109  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. 
Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star 
firepower.

LANDO
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! 
(into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

110  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the 
comlink.

ACKBAR
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 
firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

111  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover 
fire.

THREEPIO
We're coming!

HAN
Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A 
large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally 
landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and 
smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn 
around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his 
appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in 
his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded 
companion.

THREEPIO
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA
I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the 
stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit in the 
wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting 
laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions.  Two Ewoks are 
struck down by laser blasts.  One tries to awaken his friend, then 
realizes that he is dead.

112  EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death 
Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star 
Destroyers.

113  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating 
giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO      (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star 
Destroyers at point-
blank range.

ACKBAR
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might 
just take a few of
them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and 
begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the 
giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT
She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT
I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into 
the control tower, exploding.

114  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being 
decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there 
is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not 
survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will 
die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless.  Take your weapon! 
Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He 
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber 
flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the 
Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 
father.

115  EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated 
weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the 
Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An 
Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The 
logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until 
it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end 
of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-
tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks 
cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, 
then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1
Look!

PILOT #2
Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked 
out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into 
the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are 
thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, 
Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch 
with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to 
listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at 
unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The 
Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the 
battle in their favor.

116  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to 
hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some 
stormtroopers.

HAN
I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a 
second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with 
stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her 
shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN
Let's see.

LEIA
It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER    (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER
Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two 
stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment 
seems suspended in time.

HAN
I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA
I know.

STORMTROOPER
Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She 
disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward 
Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, 
its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN   (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and 
barks triumphantly.

HAN
Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No, wait....  I got an idea.

117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR    (laughs)
Good.  Good.

118  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each 
other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer 
explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a 
series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next 
to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the 
Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack 
one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO
Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT
I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE
Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

119  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an 
Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and 
interference.

HAN/PILOT  (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into 
the woods. We
need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

120  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, 
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their 
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the 
roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

121  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant 
explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN
Throw me another charge.

122  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.

123  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across 
the clearing.

HAN
Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a 
spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes 
along with the bunker.

124  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. 
(laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward 
the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

125  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The 
Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's 
hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the 
Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a 
moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the 
young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader 
struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the 
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into 
the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You 
have paid the price for
your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward 
where Vader stands watching.

LUKE  (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, 
then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts 
from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound 
screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed 
figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. 
The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now 
lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to 
strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his 
helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high 
over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of 
the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, 
Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls 
into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it 
explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is 
whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the 
bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away 
from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant 
warrior are too weak to move.

126  EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star 
to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of 
the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE
I'm going in.

LANDO
Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed 
by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who 
continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as 
they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power 
generator.

WEDGE
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by 
the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of 
those TIE fighters to
follow you.

PILOT
Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and 
Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon 
scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast 
away at them.

LANDO
That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages 
on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on 
that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the 
battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel 
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT
Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER
It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a 
huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the 
Death Star, and explodes.

129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. 
They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as 
the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading 
a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and 
desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous 
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. 
Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as 
Vader draws him closer.

VADER      (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE
But you'll die.

VADER
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my 
own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There 
beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the 
dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN     (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save 
you.

ANAKIN
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you 
were right.

LUKE
Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half 
carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 
shuttle.

131  EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense 
superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers 
outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is 
answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 
itself.

132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing 
Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor 
shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE
There it is!

LANDO
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several 
proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small 
explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously 
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a 
powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of 
the continuing chain of explosions.

133  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, 
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing 
room.

ACKBAR
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

134  EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the 
main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown 
away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando 
expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and 
whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star 
supernovas into oblivion.

135  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

136  EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all 
look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of 
self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO
They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. 
Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent 
voice.

HAN
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA
He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN
You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA
Yes.

HAN
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the 
way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

137  EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his 
father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- 
Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the 
forest.

138  EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and 
Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, 
dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and 
liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, 
finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. 
They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's 
touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original 
group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems 
distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at 
the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

END CREDITS OVER STAR FIELD


                                     TWILIGHT




                                    Written by         
          
                                 Melissa Rosenberg
          
          
          
                               Based on the novel by 

                                  Stephenie Meyer
          


          

                                                        SHOOTING DRAFT
                                                     February 11, 2008
          
          
          
          FADE IN:
          
          
          1 EXT. RAIN FOREST, OLYMPIC NATIONAL PARK, WASHINGTON - DAWN 
          
          Moss-draped. Shadow-drenched. Tortured tree trunks twist 
          upward, reaching for rare sunlight. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.)
          I'd never given much thought to how I would die..
          
          Suddenly, every creature in the forest is deadly silent. Neither 
          bird, beast nor insect make a noise. A predator is near. 
          
          Then, in the distance, hear a tiny SNICK - a twig snapping. 
          Abruptly, we're on the move. Fast.
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV - MOVING
          
          Trees start whipping past us at a dizzying speed, branches 
          are dodged with preternatural agility. And we're speeding
          up, chasing something. It's exhilarating. Terrifying. 
          Finally, up ahead, we get the first glimpse of our prey -
          -
          
          
          A DEER
          
          
          -- running for its life as it darts through this maze of 
          a forest. It sprints forward, but we gain on it. Beyond the deer, 
          SEE the forest's edge ahead, white sunlight glowing against the
          trees. The buck races for the light. We're just behind it, 
          about to emerge from the shadowy darkness -
          -
          
          
          The deer LEAPS into the light in a high arc, hovering (suddenly 
          SLOW MOTION) against the WHITE GLARE of the sun... then BAM! 
          
          
          The deer abruptly plummets out of frame at an unnatural angle, 
          leaving the WHITE GLARE to fill the screen. HOLD ON WHITENESS 
          -
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.)
          
          
          But dying in the place of someone I
          love seems like a good way to go..
          . 
          
          
          -- Then into the WHITENESS steps the face of -
          
          
          2 ISABELLA SWAN, 172
          
          
          Eyes closed against the sunlight, absorbing its rays. Long, 
          dark hair frames alabaster skin. She's a vulnerable,
          introverted, imperfect beauty.
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.)
          
          ... So I can't bring myself to 
          regret the decision that brought me 
          here to die... 
          
          
          The background comes into focus as we realize we're now in -
          
          
          2.
          EXT. SCOTTSDALE, AZ - DAY
          
          
          Bella stands at the end of a cul-de-sac on the desert's edge.
          The sun blazes behind her -- she bends down and carefully 
          scoops a tiny BARREL CACTUS into a clay pot. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.)
          
          ... The decision to leave home.
          
          She stares at the cactus in a state of reverie, until 
          
          
          BLONDE #1 (O.S.)
          Bye, Bella!
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - McMansion ACROSS THE STREET 
          
          
          Three tanned, athletic, blonde GIRLS hop into a convertible 
          Mercedes. Their flawless, bought-and-paid for beauty contrasts 
          with Bella's pale naturalness. They wave.
          
          
          BLONDE #
          Good luck at your new school! 
          
          
          They ADLIB superficial good wishes, "Don't forget to write;"
          
          "We'll miss you." Bella waves back, sweetly, but 
          halfheartedly as she steps off the curb.
          
          
          BELLA
          Have a good..
          
          --and trips. When she rights herself, they're already gone.
          
          
          BELLA
          ... life. 
          
          
          Clearly, not close friends. Bella's grown-up demeanor and
          innate intelligence become apparent as -
          -
          
          
          BELLA'S MOTHER, RENE, mid 30's --exits their house --it's
          low rent for this ritzy neighborhood. Rene is eclectic, 
          scattered, anxious, more best friend than parent. She 
          thrusts a cell phone at Bella. 
          
          
          RENE
          It won't work again, baby. 
          
          
          BELLA
          You put it on hold. 
          
          
          RENE
          I did? 
          
          
          BELLA
          Look. You also called Mexico.
          
          
          Rene pushes her playfully, they laugh.
          
          
          
          3.
          RENE
          I'll figure it out. You gotta be able 
          to reach me and Phil on the road - 
          I 
          love saying that - on the road.
          
          
          BELLA
          Very romantic.
          
          
          PHIL, 31, good looking with an athlete's body, exits the
          house, carrying Bella's three suitcases with ease. 
          
          
          PHIL
          If you call crappy motels, backwater 
          towns and ballpark hot dogs romantic.
          
          
          He puts his Phoenix Desert Dogs baseball hat on Rene's head with 
          a
          kiss. Phil's love of Rene reassures Bella. Phil heads to the old
          station wagon to load the luggage, while Rene slips her arm 
          through Bella's, clinging to her as they walk to car.
          
          
          RENE
          Now, you know if you change your 
          mind, I'll race back here from 
          wherever the game is. 
          
          
          But Rene's strained expression tells us what a great 
          sacrifice that would be. Bella forces a smile.
          
          
          BELLA
          I won't change my mind, mom.
          
          
          RENE
          You might. You've always hated Forks. 
          
          
          BELLA
          It's not about Forks, it's about 
          Dad. I mean, two weeks a year, we 
          barely know each other. 
          
          
          (off Rene's still worried 
          look)
          Mom, I want to go. I'll be fine.
          
          
          But as Rene hugs Bella, we see the truth on BELLA'S FACE 
          dread, doubt, regret. Off Bella, struggling to keep her 
          facade up as she climbs into the back seat of the car..
          .
          
          
          BEGIN TITLES OVER:
          
          
          3 BELLA'S POV OUT THE CAR WINDOW - SCOTTSDALE 
          3
          
          
          Bella, IPOD earbuds in her ears, gets a last glimpse of the 
          sparkling malls, chic shoppers, manicured cactus gardens..
          . 
          
          
          PULL UP AND OUT OF THE CAR UNTIL WE'RE -
          -
          
          
          
          4.
          4 EXT. ABOVE SCOTTSDALE (AERIAL SHOT) - DAY 
          4
          
          
          The McMansions get smaller as we SWEEP OVER the scorched 
          landscape, baking under a hot sun. Beyond the housing 
          developments SEE the rocky, dry desert, extending for miles..
          . 
          
          
          Rise HIGHER, and higher still, until finally we're suspended
          within the bright, perfect, blue SKY, with only an occasional 
          cloud..
          . 
          
          
          Slowly, the clouds start getting more numerous, thicker, darker..
          . 
          until we're completely immersed in them... the sun disappearing.
          Finally, we EMERGE from the clouds to find below 
          -
          
          
          5 EXT. WASHINGTON STATE - OLYMPIC PENINSULA (AERIAL SHOT)- DAY5
          
          
          Nothing but deep, dark, green forests for miles. SWEEP DOWN, 
          finding the eerily dramatic Lake Crescent. Over it all hangs 
          the mist from the ever-present cloudy grey sky. Everything 
          is wet and green and drenched in shade..
          . 
          
          
          FIND A TWO LANE HIGHWAY along which drives A POLICE 
          CRUISER... PUSH IN on the cruiser until we reach 
          -
          
          
          THE PASSENGER SIDE WINDOW 
          
          
          Bella looks out, taking in her gloomy new surroundings..
          .
          
          
          END TITLES.
          
          
          6 INT. POLICE CRUISER - DAY - WAITING AT LIGHT 
          6
          
          
          Bella sits next to her uniformed father, police chief CHARLIE 
          SWAN, 40's. Taciturn, introverted like Bella. Their strained 
          silence contrasts Bella's relationship with her mother. Beat.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Your hair's longer.
          
          
          BELLA
          I cut it since last time I saw you. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Guess it grew out again.
          
          
          She just nods. Silence.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          How's your mom?
          
          
          BELLA
          Good. 
          
          
          More silence. Yikes. They pass a SIGN: ‚ÄúThe City Of Forks
          Welcomes You - Pop. 3246.‚Äù Bella sighs. 
          
          
          
          5.
          7 EXT. FORKS, WASHINGTON - DAY 
          7
          
          
          As the cruiser drives through, Bella takes in this logging town 
          -
          every storefront has a wood carving. The Timber Museum's sign is
          two loggers sawing a stump. The POLICE STATION is a small wooden 
          building across from City Hall..
          . 
          
          
          8 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - DAY 
          8
          
          
          The cruiser pulls up to the old two-story house. A woodshed full 
          of firewood. There's a small boat in the garage, fishing gear, an
          old buoy. Bella climbs out... home.
          
          
          9 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - DAY 
          9
          
          
          Bella and Charlie carry in her bags. The house isn't stylish
          (the only new thing here is a Flat Screen T.V.), but it's
          comfortable, lived-in. Lots of fishing memorabilia; photos 
          of Charlie fishing with Quileute Indian BILLY BLACK. 
          
          
          Handmade cards to ‚ÄúDaddy‚Äù and photos of Bella. She winces at
          herself, age 7, in a tutu, sitting stubbornly on the ground. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          
          
          I put Grandpa's old desk in your 
          
          
          room. And I cleared some shelves 
          
          
          in the bathroom. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (grimacing)
          That's right. One bathroom.
          
          
          Bella's eye lands on a PHOTO of a much younger Charlie and
          Rene, on vacation, beaming with love. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I'll just put these up in your room 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          I can do it 
          -
          
          
          They both reach for the bags, bumping one another awkwardly. 
          Bella backs off, letting Charlie carry the bags upstairs.
          
          
          10 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - DAY 10
          
          
          An antique rolltop desk sits in a corner. The room is filled with 
          childhood remnants that have seen better days. As she unpacks her 
          CD case, loneliness finally overwhelms her. She sits heavily on 
          the edge of the bed, tears threatening..
          . 
          
          
          Then we hear a HONK outside. Bella runs across the hall and looks 
          out the window to see 
          -
          
          
          11 OUTSIDE - A FADED RED TRUCK, CIRCA 1960 pulls up... 11
          
          
          
          6.
          EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - DAY
          
          
          Bella exits to find Charlie greeting the driver, JACOB BLACK, 
          16, Quileute Indian, amiable with long black hair, and hints of 
          childish roundness in his face. The two of them help Jacob's
          father, BILLY BLACK (from the photos), into a wheelchair. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Bella, you remember Billy Black. 
          
          
          BILLY
          Glad you're finally here. Charlie 
          hasn't shut up about it since you 
          told him you were coming. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Keep exaggerating, I'll wheel you 
          down the hill. 
          
          
          BILLY
          Right after I ram you in the ankles.
          
          
          Billy takes several rolls at Charlie, who dodges. Jacob shakes 
          his head at their two fathers as he shyly approaches Bella.
          
          
          JACOB
          I'm Jacob. We made mud pies 
          together when we were little kids. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Yeah... I think I remember..
          .
          (re: the dads)
          Are they always like this?
          
          
          JACOB
          It's getting worse with old age.
          
          
          Charlie then pats the hood of the truck, addressing Bella 
          -
          
          
          CHARLIE
          So what do you think of your 
          homecoming gift?
          
          
          BELLA
          No way. The truck is for me?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Just bought it off Billy, here. 
          
          
          JACOB
          I rebuilt the engine and -
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          It's perfect!
          
          
          
          7.
          She beams. It's the first genuine smile we've seen on her.
          She rushes to the truck. Jacob eagerly joins her. 
          
          
          JACOB
          Okay, so you gotta double pump the 
          clutch when you shift, but -
          -
          
          
          He hands her the keys as she climbs in.
          
          
          BELLA
          Maybe I can give you a ride to school.
          
          
          JACOB
          I go to school on the reservation.
          
          
          BELLA
          Too bad. Would've been nice to 
          know at least one person. 
          
          
          As she starts up the truck we MATCH CUT 
          -
          
          
          12 EXT. FORKS HIGH SCHOOL - BELLA'S TRUCK - DAY 12
          
          
          Loud, belching and turning heads as Bella parks, mortified. All 
          eyes are on her as she climbs out of her truck and steps in 
          a 
          PUDDLE, soaking her sneakers. She slinks toward school, as we 
          begin 
          -
          
          
          13 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - A SERIES OF SHOTS - DAY 13
          
          
          -- Bella (never without her IPOD) makes her way thru kids who 
          stare openly; a few brave ones say hi. They're all talking 
          about her. This is her hell. 
          -- Bella wanders the walkways looking for room numbers, lost. 
          -- Constant stares at Bella, the outsider..
          .
          SERIES ENDS when a sweet, nerd-cute, motor mouth boy, ERIC, 
          appears in her path. 
          
          
          ERIC
          You're Isabella Swan, the new girl. Hi. 
          I'm Eric. The eyes and ears of this 
          place. Anything you need. Tour guide, 
          lunch date, shoulder to cry on.
          
          
          Bella just looks at him. Is he for real?
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm kind of the ‚Äúsuffer in silence‚Äù type.
          
          
          ERIC
          Good headline for your feature 
          -
          I'm on the paper, and you're news, 
          baby, front page.
          
          
          
          8.
          BELLA
          I -- no, I'm not news -- I'm, seriously, 
          not at all 
          -
          
          
          ERIC
          Whoa, chillax. No feature.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (relieved)
          Would you mind just pointing me 
          toward Mr. Varner's class?
          
          
          He leads her away, enjoying the attentive stares, as she cringes 
          from them 
          -
          
          
          ERIC
          You've missed a lot of the semester, 
          but I can hook you up - tutor, cliff 
          notes, medical excuse..
          . 
          
          
          INT. GYM - DAY 14
          
          
          The boys' basketball team runs drills on half the basketball
          court. A girls' volleyball game occupies the other half.
          
          
          Bella, in gym clothes, avoids the volleyball like it's
          radioactive. An energetic, athletic team captain, JESSICA, 
          motivates the players.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Block it, Chloe! Yeah! Good attack! 
          
          
          Unfortunately, the volleyball heads toward Bella. She closes 
          her eyes and flails at it, SMACKING it. It flies off court 
          -
          
          
          -- and beans a basketball player in the head. He is MIKE 
          NEWTON, good looking, affable, with blond spiky hair. 
          
          
          MIKE 
          Ow!
          
          
          BELLA
          (hurries to him, 
          
          
          embarrassed)
          Are you alright? I warned them not 
          to make me play.
          
          
          MIKE
          It's only a flesh wound.
          
          
          Mike grins and she smiles, relieved. A BELL RINGS, class over. 
          
          
          MIKE
          You're Isabella, right? 
          
          
          
          9.
          BELLA
          Just Bella. 
          
          
          MIKE
          I'm Mike. Newton.
          
          
          He looks at her a second too long, clearly taken by her -
          -
          Suddenly, Jessica appears, stepping between them. Subtle, 
          but possessive as she nudges Mike.
          
          
          JESSICA
          She's got a great spike, doesn't 
          she? 
          
          
          (to Bella)
          So, you're from Arizona, right? 
          Aren't people supposed to be tan 
          down there?
          
          
          BELLA
          That's why they kicked me out.
          
          
          Mike laughs, and because he does, Jessica does. Bella just 
          feels uncomfortable with the attention..
          .
          
          
          15 INT. CAFETERIA - DAY 15
          
          
          FOLLOW Bella, Mike and Jessica as they carry their trays to 
          a 
          table. Eric appears, and squishes into a seat next to Bella. 
          
          
          ERIC
          Mike, you met my home girl Bella. 
          
          
          MIKE
          Your home girl?
          
          
          JESSICA
          
          
           (to Bella)
          It's first grade all over again, 
          and you're the shiny new toy.
          
          
          Bella smiles awkwardly. Suddenly, a FLASHBULB blinds Bella. 
          She looks up at the photographer, ANGELA, Jessica's sweet, 
          low key, insecure friend. 
          
          
          ANGELA
          Sorry, needed a candid for the feature 
          -
          
          
          ERIC
          Feature's dead, Angela. Don't bring it 
          up again.
          
          
          (to Bella)
          I got your back, baby.
          
          
          
          10.
          ANGELA
          
          
          (disappointed)
          Guess we'll just run another editorial on 
          teen drinking. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Sorry. There's always eating disorders, 
          or Speedo padding on the swim team 
          -
          
          
          ANGELA
          -- Wait, that's a good one..
          .
          
          
          But Bella's attention is now riveted to 
          -
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - THE DOUBLE DOORS OF THE CAFETERIA 
          
          
          They swing open as four of the most astounding people Bella's
          ever seen enter (IN SLOW MOTION): THE CULLENS. Two guys, two 
          girls, all chalky pale, purplish shadows under their eyes..
          . 
          and all devastatingly beautiful. 
          
          
          They move through the room with effortless grace, and take a seat 
          at a table furthest from Bella's. Bella leans over to Jessica and
          Angela.
          
          
          BELLA
          Who are they?
          
          
          ANGELA
          The Cullens. 
          
          
          Jessica leans in, swinging into gossip mode.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Doctor and Mrs. Cullen's foster 
          kids. They all moved down here 
          from Alaska two years ago. 
          
          
          ANGELA
          They kinda keep to themselves.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Because they're all together. 
          Like, together together. The 
          blonde girl, Rosalie, and the big 
          dark-haired guy, Emmett..
          .
          
          
          ON ROSALIE, 18, long blonde hair, model beautiful, knows it. 
          Alongside her is EMMETT, 17, big, brawny, like a weight 
          lifter, but a playful glint in his eye. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          ... they're a thing. I'm not even
          sure that's legal.
          
          
          
          11.
          ANGELA
          Jess, they're not actually related. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          But they live together. And the 
          little dark haired girl, Alice, 
          she's really weird..
          . 
          
          
          ON ALICE, 17, pixie-like, rail thin, light on her feet with short, 
          black hair going in every direction. She hovers over, JASPER, 18, 
          honey-blond hair, tall, lean, slightly tortured.
          
          
          JESSICA
          ... she's with Jasper, the blonde 
          who looks like he's in pain. 
          I 
          mean, Dr. Cullen's like this foster 
          dad slash match maker. 
          
          
          ANGELA
          Maybe he'll adopt me.
          
          
          Bella laughs, liking her... then sees the last Cullen to enter 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD, 17. Lanky, with untidy, bronze colored hair. He seems 
          inwardly turned, mysterious. More boyish than the others. But 
          the most striking of all. Bella can't take her eyes off him.
          
          
          BELLA
          Who's he?
          
          
          JESSICA
          That's Edward Cullen.
          
          
          Suddenly, Edward looks over, as if he heard Jessica from 
          across the room. His eyes meet Bella's. But he seems..
          . 
          confused. Bella quickly looks away. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          He's totally gorgeous, obviously. 
          But apparently, no one here is good 
          enough for him. Like I care. 
          
          
          (she obviously does)
          Anyway, don't waste your time. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I wasn't planning on it.
          
          
          But Bella can't help but peek at Edward again. He's staring
          at her outright now, with a slightly frustrated expression 
          that unnerves Bella. She hides behind her hair.
          
          
          16 INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - DAY 16
          
          
          A room of black-topped lab tables. Two to a table. Bella 
          and Mike enter. 
          
          
          
          12.
          Mike takes his seat and points her toward MR. MOLINA, 
          Birkenstocked, enthusiastic science teacher at the head of 
          the class. As Bella moves to the teacher with her class 
          slip, she notes 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD -- his back to her, sitting at a front table. But as 
          she passes Edward's table..
          .
          
          
          SLOW MOTION -- the breeze she creates when she passes lifts 
          a 
          piece of paper next to Edward. We're still on his back as he
          inhales --then abruptly stiffens. He grabs onto the edge of 
          the table, crumbling it slightly. No one notices. 
          
          
          Mr. Molina takes Bella's class slip. 
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          Welcome, Ms. Swan. Follow along as 
          best you can till you get caught 
          up. 
          
          
          Mr. Molina gestures to the only empty seat... next to Edward. 
          But as Bella approaches, she's taken aback when 
          -
          
          
          ON EDWARD'S FACE -he slowly looks up at her, his eyes coal
          black with repulsion, fury. If looks could literally kill..
          .
          
          
          Bella knocks someone's book bag off their chair. Replaces it,
          mumbling an apology. Then slinks reluctantly into her seat. 
          Edward jerks away from her to the extreme edge of his chair. 
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          
          
          (to the class, animated)
          
          
          Today we'll be observing the behavior 
          
          
          of planaria, a.k.a flatworms.
          
          
          As Mr. Molina distributes two petri dishes per table 
          -
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          We're going to cut them in half, 
          then watch them regenerate into two 
          separate worms..
          . 
          
          
          Bella glances at Edward who averts his face, holding a hand over 
          his nose as if he smells something horrible. 
          
          
          Bella, shrinking, subtly sniffs the air, smells nothing. 
          Then she sniffs her hair. It's fine. She's perplexed. Mr.
          Molina hands Edward two petri dishes.
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          ... Yes, folks, zombie worms! They 
          just won't die.
          
          
          Edward takes a dish, then slides the second one across the 
          table to Bella as if she had Ebola. She takes her dish, and 
          makes a dark curtain of her hair between them. 
          
          
          
          13.
          She can see EDWARD'S HANDS under the table. Clenched into
          fists. Off Bella, utterly baffled, and deeply insecure..
          .
          
          
          17 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY 17
          
          
          -- as the BELL RINGS, Edward bolts out the door. Other kids 
          and Bella exit a moment later. Bella looks down the hall; 
          he's gone. 
          
          
          18 INT. ADMINISTRATION OFFICE - DAY 18
          
          
          Bella enters, but nearly turns and leaves when she sees 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD sweet-talking the enchanted female ADMINISTRATOR, 
          40's. He doesn't see Bella enter.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          There must be something open sixth 
          
          
          period. Physics? Biochem?
          
          
          ADMINISTRATOR
          
          
          No, every class is full. I'm 
          
          
          afraid you'll have to stay in 
          
          
          biology. I'm so sorry. 
          
          
          Bella blanches. The Administrator sees her and gestures for 
          her to wait a minute. 
          
          
          But Edward suddenly straightens as if sensing Bella. He slowly 
          turns to glare at her with piercing, hate-filled eyes. She backs 
          to the wall, hugging herself, suddenly chilled... with fear. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          (to the Administrator)
          I'll just... endure it. 
          
          
          He strides out the door. Off Bella..
          . 
          
          
          19 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY 19
          
          
          Edward climbs into a shiny new silver Volvo with the Cullens,
          while Bella, upset, hurries to her truck. The many eyes still 
          watching her add insult to injury. ... Finally, she reaches 
          -
          
          
          20 INT. BELLA'S TRUCK (CONTINUOUS) 20
          
          
          -- and closes the door. Her eyes well... but she fights it, 
          getting mad. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Jerk.
          
          
          As she tries to start the car, choking the engine, we begin to 
          hear a MAN'S RAGGED, FRIGHTENED BREATH 
          -
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          
          14.
          21 ECU ON A SECURITY GUARD - IN THE DARKNESS 21
          
          
          Extremely tight on his terrified FACE, sweat dripping, breathing 
          in short gasps, trying desperately not to make a sound. INCLUDE 
          -
          
          
          22 INT. GRISHAM MILL - LATE AFTERNOON 22
          
          
          --He's crouched in a dark corner. But then he sees a SHADOW
          move blindingly fast past him. He jerks around, then another 
          SHADOW flies past, too fast to follow. He BOLTS!
          
          
          He runs up a flight of stairs, harsh lights from the exterior of 
          the mill striating him. He moves as fast as humanly possible 
          -
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV - ON THE SECURITY GUARD FROM SEVERAL FLOORS BELOW
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV charges after him at an INHUMAN SPEED through this 
          maze of pillars and walkways. We dodge skull-crushing beams, 
          LEAP from one floor up to the next, up ladders, scaffolding, 
          beams, up, and up, getting closer and closer to 
          -
          
          
          THE SECURITY GUARD
          
          
          -- who desperately runs for his life, looking over his shoulder 
          with terror. UNKNOWN POV is closing in on him, but then he 
          BOLTS out a door 
          -
          
          
          23 EXT. GRISHAM MILL (CONTINUOUS) - LATE AFTERNOON 23
          
          
          -- The guard BURSTS OUT onto a stair landing, but loses his 
          footing and TRIPS, breaking through the rail and pitching 
          over the side, into the air 
          -
          
          
          -- and stops, hovering mid-air, a yard from the landing. 
          A 
          HAND grips his shirt, then YANKS him out of the air and out 
          of frame with incredible strength. His guttural SCREAM is 
          choked short as BLOOD SPRAYS THE LANDING..
          .
          
          
          24 INT. FORKS COFFEE SHOP - LATE AFTERNOON 24
          
          
          ON A TOP SIRLOIN STEAK as it is set in front of Charlie. He 
          shares a table with Bella. INCLUDE the waitress, CORA, 30's.
          She beams at Bella as she sets a plate of cod in front of her.
          
          
          Several LOGGERS at the counter offer Bella welcoming smiles. She 
          shrinks in her seat at the attention. Charlie's oblivious.
          
          
          CORA
          
          
          Can't get over how grown up you 
          
          
          are. And so gorgeous. 
          
          
          Bella glances at Charlie, who keeps his eyes on his steak. 
          A 
          bearded, hippy logger, WAYLON FORGE, 50, appears behind Cora, 
          leaning over her shoulder to Bella 
          -
          
          
          
          15.
          WAYLON
          ‚ÄòMember me, honey? I was Santa one year.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Waylon, she hasn't had a Christmas 
          here since she was four.
          
          
          WAYLON
          Bet I made an impression, though. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          You always do. 
          
          
          CORA
          Let the girl eat her cod, Waylon. 
          
          
          (to Bella)
          When you're done, I'll bring your 
          favorite - berry cobbler. Remember? 
          Your dad still has it. Every Thursday.
          
          
          BELLA
          (doesn't remember at
          all)
          That'd be great, thank you.
          
          
          Cora shoos Waylon away. Left alone now, Charlie and Bella 
          both reach for the salt, knock hands. Charlie goes for the 
          ketchup instead. Silence as they eat. 
          
          
          A burst of LAUGHTER from a nearby happy FAMILY only serves to 
          emphasize their discomfort. Bella tries to bridge the gap.
          
          
          BELLA
          So... you eat here every night?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Easier than washing dishes.
          
          
          BELLA
          I can cook.
          
          
          He looks up, as if confused by the concept.
          
          
          BELLA
          I do the cooking at home - in Phoenix. 
          Mom's not great in the kitchen.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I remember..
          . 
          
          
          They both laugh -- recalling an especially bad dinner. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          How was school? Meet anyone?
          
          
          
          16.
          BELLA
          A few people... Do you know the 
          Cullen family?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          (looks up sharply)
          Are people talking about them again?
          
          
          BELLA
          No... well, a little.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Just ‚Äòcause they're newcomers. We're 
          lucky to have a surgeon like Dr. 
          Cullen at our podunk hospital. Lucky 
          his wife wanted to live in a small 
          town. Lucky his kids aren't like 
          a 
          lot of the hell-raisers around here.
          
          
          BELLA
          ... Okay.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I just don't like narrow
          mindedness. 
          
          
          And he returns to his food. Silence. 
          
          
          25 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - NIGHT 25
          
          
          Bella looks out at the fog as she talks on the phone. 
          
          
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          If spring training goes well, we could 
          be living in Florida permanently. 
          
          
          TELEPHONE OPERATOR (O.S.)
          Please insert 25 cents to continue.
          
          
          BELLA
          Mom, where's your cell?
          
          
          INTERCUT WITH:
          
          
          26 EXT. GAS STATION/GARAGE - NIGHT 26
          
          
          Rene talks on a pay phone, her dead cell phone in her hand. 
          In the b.g., Phil and an Attendant work on the Subaru engine. 
          
          
          RENE
          Ok, I didn't lose my power cord. It 
          ran away. Screaming. I literally 
          repel technology now.
          
          
          
          17.
          Bella smiles, missing her mom. Rene feeds the phone 
          quarters. 
          
          
          RENE
          
          
          Now, tell me more about your 
          
          
          school, baby. What are the kids 
          
          
          like? Are there any cute guys? 
          
          
          Are they being nice to you?
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (a beat, lying)
          
          
          They've all been really..
          . 
          
          
          welcoming.
          
          
          PUSH IN ON BELLA'S FACE, getting mad all over again as..
          .
          
          
          FLASH POP TO -EDWARD'S FACE, HIS COAL BLACK EYES, THE FURY..
          .
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          27 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING (BEFORE SCHOOL) 27
          
          
          ON BELLA, sitting atop a table, an open book in her lap. But her 
          eyes are on the arriving kids, and the parking lot as they pull 
          in. She's waiting for Edward.
          
          
          Jessica, Angela, Mike and Eric kick around a soccerball 
          nearby. They wave Bella to join them but she smiles, 
          declining... and returns to watching for Edward. Her face 
          tells us she's ready for a confrontation. 
          
          
          28 INT. BIOLOGY CLASS - SAME DAY 28
          
          
          Bella strides in... but stops, surprised to find her lab 
          table empty. Off Bella, frustrated..
          .
          
          
          BEGIN A SERIES OF SCENES OVER SEVERAL DAYS:
          
          
          29 INT. CAFETERIA - DIFFERENT DAY 29
          
          
          Bella sits with Jessica and Angela who watch a YouTube video 
          on their phone. Bella gives it a cursory look, but is 
          focused on the Cullen table --only four of them. Edward's
          seat is empty..
          . 
          
          
          30 INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - DIFFERENT DAY 30
          
          
          Bella washes her hands, then looks up at the mirror, startled to 
          find Rosalie and Alice behind her. They study Bella, Rosalie 
          with chillingly cold eyes, Alice with curiosity. Bella, uneasy, 
          hurries out.
          
          
          31 EXT. FORKS HIGH SCHOOL - DIFFERENT DAY 31
          
          
          Bella exits with Angela, Mike, Jessica and Eric, becoming a part 
          of this circle. 
          
          
          
          18.
          She now only glances at Rosalie's car, a red M3 BMW, as it drives
          past, noting, again, four Cullens, no Edward. Bella returns to 
          her friends, finally forgetting about him..
          .
          
          
          SERIES OF SCENES ENDS as we go to 
          -
          32 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MORNING 32
          It's neater, rearranged more attractively. Clearly, Bella's
          given it her touch. She sweeps through, folding Charlie's
          fleece jacket, straightening up. She grabs her book bag 
          -
          BELLA
          Dad, I'm heading out.
          33 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE (CONTINUOUS) - MORNING 33
          ON BELLA'S FACE as she opens the door and stops, dismay
          filling her. It's pouring down rain --the yard is full of
          puddles, some frozen. Bella shivers, wraps her coat tight.
          BELLA
          Great. 
          WHIP PAN to the driveway as Charlie pulls in -driving her 
          truck. 
          BELLA
          Dad, I can drive myself to school.
          
          
          As she walks down the steps, she doesn't realize, something's 
          watching her -
          -
          UNKNOWN POV - FROM THE TREES 
          --tracking Bella's every move as she slips and falls on 
          a
          
          
          patch of ice -
          -
          BACK ON BELLA - fallen on her ass. Charlie climbs out of the 
          truck, helps her up. 
          CHARLIE
          You okay, Bells?
          BELLA
          Ice doesn't help the uncoordinated.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          That's why I got you new tires. 
          She looks over at the truck -- yep, four new tires.
          CHARLIE
          
          
          The other ones were nearly bald. 
          
          
          
          19.
          BELLA
          You got me new tires. No one's 
          ever done that before.
          
          
          Charlie looks at her, confused.
          
          
          BELLA
          I mean... nothing.
          
          
          He clearly doesn't get it as heads toward his Cruiser.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I'll be late for dinner. I'm heading 
          down to Mason County. A security guard 
          at the Grisham Mill got killed by some 
          kind of animal..
          .
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV - ON BELLA AND CHARLIE, as he speaks..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          An animal?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          You're not in Phoenix any more, 
          honey. They've been hunting it for 
          a week with no luck. Thought I'd 
          lend a hand.
          
          
          BELLA
          Be careful.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Always am.
          
          
          BACK ON BELLA..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA
          And thank you. For the tires.
          
          
          He sees emotion in her eyes. Doesn't understand it, but nods,
          heads inside. Bella looks at the tires again, oddly moved..
          .
          
          
          34 OMITTED 34
          
          
          35 INT. BIOLOGY CLASS/HALLWAY - DAY 35
          
          
          Rain beats on the roof as Eric walks Bella into class. She 
          brushes water off her coat as he chats her up.
          
          
          ERIC
          ... and yeah, prom committee is 
          a 
          chick thing, but I gotta cover it 
          for the paper anyway, and they need 
          a guy to help choose the music -
          -
          So I need your play list 
          -
          
          
          
          20.
          Bella is about to respond when Mike comes up behind her.
          
          
          MIKE
          Come on, Arizona. Give it up for 
          the rain.
          
          
          And he shakes his wet baseball cap onto Bella's head.
          
          
          BELLA
          Terrific. 
          
          
          She heads toward her seat, brushing off her hair. But she 
          freezes when she sees --Edward. 
          
          
          Bella straightens, girding herself. Then strides to the 
          table, and confidently drops her books down, ready to address 
          him. But he looks up at her 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          Hello.
          
          
          Bella stops. Stunned. He is direct, precise, as if every 
          word is an effort for him. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I didn't have a chance to introduce 
          myself last week. My name is 
          Edward Cullen. 
          
          
          She's too shocked that he's talking to her to answer.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (prompting)
          ... You're Bella.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm... yes. 
          
          
          Feeling like an idiot, she quickly sits. He abruptly moves to 
          the extreme edge of his seat. She's even more baffled now.
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          
          
          (to the class)
          Onion root tip cells! That's 
          what's on your slides. Separate 
          and label them into the phases of 
          mitosis. The first partners to get 
          it right, win... the golden onion! 
          
          
          He excitedly holds up a spray painted onion. Everyone just 
          looks at him. He's disappointed by their apathy.
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          Come on, people. Tick tock.
          
          
          
          21.
          Everyone sets to work. Edward pushes the microscope to 
          Bella, keeping his distance, his voice controlled.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Ladies first. 
          
          
          She grabs the microscope defensively and snaps the first slide 
          in, adjusting the lens. She's curt as she addresses him.
          
          
          BELLA
          You've been gone.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Out of town. For personal reasons.
          
          
          She glances at him but he just leans far away, his face 
          tight. She looks back into the microscope.
          
          
          BELLA
          Prophase. 
          
          
          She begins to remove the slide. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          May I look?
          
          
          She slides him the microscope. He glances through the lens.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Prophase.
          
          
          BELLA
          (muttering)
          Like I said.
          
          
          He writes it on the worksheet. Then he takes a breath, as if 
          trying calm himself, and turns to her with enormous effort.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Enjoying the rain?
          
          
          BELLA
          Seriously? You're asking me about the 
          weather?
          
          
          EDWARD
          It appears.
          
          
          BELLA
          No. I don't like the cold. Or the 
          wet. Or the gray. Or parkas. Or 
          turtle necks. 
          
          
          Is that a smile playing on his lips? For the first time, he 
          seems more intrigued than agonized. He studies her. She still 
          can't tell if he despises her or not. It's infuriating.
          
          
          
          22.
          BELLA
          
          
          What?
          
          
          He shakes his head and turns to the microscope, switching out 
          
          
          the slides. She looks at him. And keeps looking..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - ECU ON EDWARD'S FACE
          
          
          His cheekbones, his lips. So perfect, like a sculpture..
          .
          EDWARD
          
          
          Anaphase. 
          She snaps out of it. Covers with a dry look. 
          BELLA 
          May I? 
          
          (she looks through the 
          lens)
          Anaphase.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Like I said.
          
          
          She glances at him, and this time sees a smirk. She simply 
          holds out her hand for another slide.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (handing her the slide)
          If you hate cold and rain, why move to 
          the wettest place in the continental U.S.
          
          
          BELLA
          It's complicated.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I think I can keep up.
          
          
          He actually seems interested. She looks into the microscope as 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          My mother remarried. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Very complex. So you don't like him.
          
          
          BELLA
          Phil is fine. Young for her, but 
          nice enough.
          
          
          (re: the slide)
          Interphase.
          
          
          CUT ON THE SCHOOL BELL:
          
          
          
          23.
          36 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER 36
          
          
          Bella exits holding the golden onion, and practically runs 
          into Edward, who's directly in front of her. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          Why didn't you stay with your mom 
          
          
          and stepdad?
          
          
          He waits for her answer, studying her, as if trying to decipher 
          her. She's drawn in by his attention, oddly compelled.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Alright, Phil's a minor league 
          
          
          baseball player, so he travels 
          a 
          
          
          lot. My mother stayed home with me 
          
          
          but it made her unhappy. So 
          I 
          
          
          decided to spend time with my 
          
          
          father.
          
          
          EDWARD
          But now you're unhappy. 
          
          
          BELLA
          No... I -- I just..
          .
          
          
          Bella turns away -- embarrassed, vulnerable. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          I'm just trying to figure you out. 
          
          
          You're very hard to read.
          
          
          He's clearly trying to read her now... their eyes meet again.
          But now she looks more closely at him.
          
          
          BELLA
          Did you get contacts? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          ... no.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Your eyes were black before, now 
          
          
          they're this golden brown or 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's just the fluorescents.
          
          
          He abruptly turns and walks away. As he does, Bella notes -
          -
          HIS HANDS clenched into tight fists. Off Bella, utterly 
          bewildered, both intrigued and frustrated.
          
          
          37 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY 37
          
          
          The rain has stopped, but the parking lot is full of water 
          and patches of black ice. 
          
          
          
          24.
          Shivering, Bella heads for her truck, carrying the onion, 
          carefully navigating the icy puddles. As she reaches her 
          truck, she looks across the lot 
          
          
          EDWARD stands by his silver Volvo with his siblings, about to 
          climb in. A moment as their eyes meet... then he looks toward the 
          sound of a high pitched SCREECH, that quickly grows LOUDER..
          . 
          
          
          Bella turns to see a VAN -- skidding on the ice, careening out of 
          control, heading directly for her. TIME suddenly fractures, 
          compressing to stillness, then exploding in bursts of speed as 
          -
          
          
          -- THE FACES OF THE STUDENTS - in shock, seeing what's coming.
          --THE VAN DRIVER'S FACE -TYLER, desperately trying to gain
          control, then shielding his face.
          -- EDWARD'S FACE - looking at Bella with horror..
          . 
          
          
          THE VAN is about to hit Bella's truck, with her standing in 
          between, when suddenly, something knocks Bella down, pinning 
          her to the ground. She looks up - Edward is on top of her. 
          
          
          The world around them FREEZES -- in this fraction of 
          a 
          second, their proximity is overwhelming, electrifying. He 
          breathes in her scent, she takes in his flawless face..
          .
          
          
          Abruptly, we BLAST BACK TO SPEED as several things happen so 
          quickly, we, and Bella, are unsure what's going on:
          
          
          -- THE VAN SMASHES into the back of Bella's truck 
          -
          -- Then SPINS around, once again careening toward her and 
          Edward, then suddenly 
          -
          --EDWARD'S HANDS are creating a deep dent in the side of the
          van's body as it shudders to a stop, a foot from Bella. 
          -- Edward literally pushes the van away.
          
          
          Then silence. A long beat, void of any sound, as Bella looks at 
          Edward, trying to absorb what just happened. Edward's fear for
          her is still alive on his face. She starts to speak but..
          .
          
          
          THE SCREAMING begins, yelling, calls for help. People leap to 
          Tyler's aid, run to Bella and Edward. Bella SEES the onion on the
          ground, smashed as she would have been. As everyone sweeps in, 
          Edward moves into the b.g. Mike and Eric run to Bella 
          -
          
          
          MIKE ERIC
          
          
          Are you okay!? Are you What happened!? Did anyone 
          
          
          hurt?! see what happened?
          !
          
          
          Amid the chaos, Bella sees EDWARD'S SIBLINGS looking at
          Edward. But they show no hint of concern for his safety. 
          Instead, they look at him with disapproval... and fury. 
          
          
          38 INT. HOSPITAL - TREATMENT AREA - DAY 38
          
          
          The double doors BURST open as Charlie runs in, face white 
          with terror. He spots 
          -
          
          
          
          25.
          BELLA - sitting on a gurney, the E.R. DOCTOR looking into her 
          eyes with a pen light. On the next gurney over, Tyler, the 
          van's driver, lies with a mild head wound. Charlie rushes up.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Bells. Are you alright?
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm fine, dad. Calm down.
          
          
          TYLER
          I'm so sorry, Bella. I tried to stop.
          
          
          BELLA
          It's okay, Tyler.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          It sure as hell is not okay.
          
          
          BELLA
          Dad, it's not his fault-
          
          
          CHARLIE 
          (stern, cutting her off)
          We nearly lost you.
          
          
          BELLA
          But you didn't.
          
          
          He'd hug her, if that was who he, or who she was. Instead,
          he glares at Tyler.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          You can kiss your license goodbye.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN (O.S.
          )
          I heard the Chief's daughter was here.
          
          
          They look up as DR. CARLISLE CULLEN, mid 30's, approaches, blond,
          movie star handsome. His face is kind, but pale, tired. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Good. Dr. Cullen. 
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          (to E.R. Doctor)
          I've got this one, Jackie.
          
          
          The E.R. Doctor hands Dr. Cullen the chart, exits. Dr. Cullen 
          reviews her chart, then feels the back of her head as..
          .
          
          
          
          26.
          DR. CULLEN
          You have a nice knot growing back 
          there, but your x-rays show no 
          indication of concussion. 
          
          
          TYLER
          I'm so sorry, Bella. I'm really 
          -
          
          
          Charlie abruptly pulls the curtain between them. 
          
          
          BELLA
          It would have been a lot worse if Edward 
          hadn't knocked me out of the way.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Edward? Your boy?
          
          
          Dr. Cullen quickly looks back at the chart. Bella's 
          intuition flickers, sensing he knows something. She presses.
          
          
          BELLA
          It was amazing he got to me so 
          fast. He was nowhere near me.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          (smiles)
          As long as you're safe. 
          
          
          INT. HOSPITAL - RECEPTION - DAY 39
          
          
          Charlie and Bella exit the treatment area.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I just have to sign some paperwork. 
          You better call your mom.
          
          
          BELLA
          You told her?! She's probably freaking.
          
          
          He shrugs and hurries off. Bella shakes her head, pulls out her 
          cell phone. Is about to dial, but then sees down the hall..
          .
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - EDWARD, ROSALIE, AND DR. CULLEN
          
          
          Rosalie is clearly furious at Edward who stands his ground. 
          Dr. Cullen plays intermediary. 
          
          
          ROSALIE
          This isn't just about you, it's about 
          all of us -
          -
          
          
          Dr. Cullen sees Bella and stops Rosalie 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Let's take this in my office.
          
          
          
          27.
          Rosalie glares at Edward as she goes off with Dr. Cullen. Edward 
          adopts a nonchalant air as Bella approaches, determined.
          
          
          BELLA
          Can I talk to you for a moment?
          (off his nod)
          How did you get over to me so quickly? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I was standing right next to you.
          
          
          BELLA
          You were next to your car, across 
          the lot.
          
          
          He steps closer to her. His expression turns icy hard. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          No, I wasn't.
          
          
          She won't be bullied. Steps closer to him.
          
          
          BELLA
          Yes. You were. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You're confused. You hit your head. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I know what I saw.
          
          
          EDWARD
          And what, exactly, was that?
          
          
          BELLA
          You stopped that van. You pushed
          it away.
          
          
          EDWARD
          No one will believe that. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I wasn't planning to tell anyone. 
          
          
          This registers with Edward. They're inches from each other,
          the tension thick. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I just want to know the truth.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Can't you just thank me and get 
          over it?
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Thank you.
          
          
          
          28.
          A long beat as they look at each other, angry, defensive... and 
          without a doubt, attracted. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You're not going to let it go, are you?
          
          
          BELLA
          No.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (turns, walks away)
          Then I hope you enjoy disappointment.
          
          
          BELLA
          Why did you even bother?
          
          
          He stops, a beat. Looks back at her, unexpectedly vulnerable. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          ... I don't know.
          
          
          And he keeps walking. Off Bella, confused, frustratingly 
          attracted, and absolutely determined to find out the truth.
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          That was the first night I dreamed 
          of Edward Cullen..
          .
          
          
          40 DREAM SEQUENCE - UNDERWATER 40
          
          
          Bella swims, white skin aglow, hair floating weightlessly, 
          sensually... suddenly, something BLASTS past her. She spins. 
          It's gone. Something BLASTS behind her. She spins again -
          to find herself face to face with 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD ... Bella reaches for him, but he abruptly springs 
          backward, just out of reach. 
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          41 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - ON BELLA - NIGHT 41
          
          
          -as she bolts up awake. In that split second, in the darkness, 
          she SEES Edward, watching her. She SNAPS on the light -- the 
          room is empty. Was she dreaming? 
          42 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - PARKING LOT - DAY 42
          
          
          Bella stands in the exact spot of the accident. Behind her 
          on the lawn, several CLASSES congregate, gathering for 
          a 
          field trip. Mr. Molina is in charge.
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          Make sure I get your permission slips.
          
          
          
          29.
          PUSH IN ON BELLA'S FACE staring at the skid marks on the
          pavement..
          .
          
          
          FLASH POP TO THE VAN REELING RIGHT FOR HER 
          -
          
          
          FLASH POP TO EDWARD'S HANDS STOPPING THE VAN 
          -
          
          
          FLASH POP TO EDWARD ON TOP OF HER, THE PROXIMITY, ELECTRICITY 
          -
          
          
          BACK ON BELLA, blushing at the memory. Then she SEES Edward 
          arrive with Alice and Jasper. She watches him, barely noticing as 
          Mike trots up to her -
          -
          
          
          MIKE 
          (ala Dr. Frankenstein)
          Look! You're moving. You're ALIVE!
          
          
          BELLA
          ... Yeah, false alarm..
          .
          
          
          MIKE
          Actually, I'm glad you're not dead 
          ‚Äòcause - well, that would suck, plus 
          I 
          wanted to ask you - even though it's, 
          like, a month away..
          .
          
          
          But Bella's distracted by Edward. Mike's VOICE DIPS as..
          .
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - ACROSS THE LAWN
          
          
          Edward, head down, is in quiet conference with Jasper and Alice. 
          Abruptly, he looks up, as if listening to her and Mike, though 
          he's too far away to hear. Bella quickly refocuses on Mike.
          
          
          MIKE
          So what do you think?
          (off her blank look)
          You want to go? To prom. With me.
          
          
          BELLA
          (realizing, horrified)
          Prom. As in dance. I, uh - have to go 
          
          
          -somewhere. To Jacksonville. Yeah.
          MIKE
          You can't go another weekend? 
          
          
          BELLA
          Non-refundable ticket. Maybe you 
          should ask Jessica. 
          
          
          Mike follows Bella's eyes way across the lawn to Jessica.
          She smiles at them -- Suddenly Edward crosses in front of 
          Jessica. He seems to be smirking..
          .
          
          
          
          30.
          43 INT. COMMUNITY COLLEGE GREENHOUSE - FIELD TRIP - DAY 43
          
          
          Mr. Molina and a Tour Guide lead several dozen kids through 
          the greenhouse. Bella keeps an eye on Edward who's up ahead
          with Alice and Jasper. Mr. Molina demonstrates the compost 
          machine as the students mess around. 
          
          
          MR. MOLINA
          ...c'mon, Eric, stuff that compost 
          down deep... that's it..
          .
          (the machine gurgles and spins)
          ... now Tyler, take a big steaming 
          cup of ‚Äúcompost tea.‚Äù This is 
          recycling at its most basic level -
          -
          hey, don't drink that!
          
          
          When Bella sees Edward pause by an ancient staghorn fern, 
          alone, she takes a breath for courage and strides up to him. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Hello, Edward.
          
          
          He glances at her, merely nodding. We notice his FISTS clench, 
          and unclench. Bella looks at him, appalled by his rudeness.
          
          
          BELLA
          Really?
          
          
          No response. She turns, starts to walk away. 
          
          
          EDWARD 
          What's in Jacksonville?
          
          
          She turns back to him.
          
          
          BELLA
          How did you know about that? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You didn't answer my question.
          
          
          BELLA
          You haven't answered any of mine. 
          You won't even say hello.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Hello.
          
          
          BELLA
          And how did you stop that van?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Adrenaline rush. Very common. 
          Google it. 
          
          
          
          31.
          BELLA
          
          
          (not buying it)
          Floridians. That's what's in 
          Jacksonville.
          
          
          She turns to storm off but she stumbles over the irrigation 
          hose. Edward steadies her, catching her scent -- still so 
          powerful... He clenches his jaw.
          
          
          EDWARD
          It helps if you actually watch
          where you put your feet.
          
          
          Insulted, she keeps moving. He keeps pace, serious now. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I know I've been rude, but it's for 
          the best.
          
          
          She just looks at him like he's crazy. He walks away as
          Jessica suddenly rushes up.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Guess who just asked me to prom!
          
          
          Bella smiles.
          
          
          JESSICA
          I totally thought Mike was going to 
          ask you, Bella. Is it gonna be 
          weird? 
          
          
          BELLA
          No way. Zero weirdness. You guys 
          are great together.
          
          
          JESSICA
          I know, right?
          
          
          Giddy, Jessica rushes to catch up with Angela. Bella heads 
          out the door that leads to 
          -
          
          
          EXT. COMMUNITY COLLEGE GREENHOUSE - THE BUSES (CONTINUOUS)44
          
          
          --where everyone's looking at the COMPOST ‚ÄúWORM BOX‚Äù, grossing
          each other out with the slimy creatures. As Bella backs away, 
          Edward steps up.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Bella, it would be better if we 
          weren't friends. 
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (wounded)
          Too bad you didn't figure that out 
          earlier. 
          
          
          (MORE)
          
          
          
          32.
          BELLA (cont'd)
          You could have let the van crush me 
          and saved yourself all this regret.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (snapping, angry)
          You think I regret saving you?
          
          
          BELLA
          I know you do.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (furious)
          You don't know anything.
          
          
          His harshness stings her. Suddenly, Alice appears at 
          Edward's side. She eyes Bella with curiosity.
          
          
          ALICE
          The bus is leaving.
          (to Bella)
          Hi. Will you be riding with us?
          
          
          EDWARD
          No. Our bus is full.
          
          
          He purposefully walks Alice away. But he glances back at 
          Bella with, is that... remorse? She doesn't see it.
          
          
          INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - EVENING 45
          
          
          Bella enters, throws down her book bag and coat, still angry. 
          She starts upstairs but Charlie enters from the kitchen.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Your mother called. Again.
          
          
          BELLA
          Your fault, for telling her about 
          the accident.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          She always did know how to worry. 
          
          
          (hint of sadness)
          But... she's changed, too. She 
          seems happy. Phil sounds all 
          right.
          
          
          BELLA
          He is.
          
          
          She continues upstairs, glancing at her parents' WEDDING PHOTO.
          Off Bella's FACE, we MATCH CUT -
          -
          
          
          
          33.
          46 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - CAFETERIA - ON BELLA'S FACE - DAY 46
          
          
          -- as she pushes through the doors. She glances over at the 
          CULLEN TABLE, Edward with his siblings. He doesn't look at her.
          Anger and determination set in again as Bella joins Eric, 
          Jessica, Mike and Angela. She drops her book bag on a seat 
          -
          
          
          ERIC
          La Push, baby. You in?
          
          
          BELLA
          Should I know what that means?
          
          
          MIKE
          La Push beach, down on the Quileute 
          rez. We're all going after school. 
          Big swell coming in. 
          
          
          ERIC
          And I don't just surf the internet.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Eric, you stood up once. On a foam 
          board.
          
          
          ANGELA
          There's whale watching, too. Come with. 
          
          
          ERIC
          La Push, baby.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'll go if you stop saying that. 
          
          
          47 THE SALAD BAR STATION - MINUTES LATER 47
          
          
          Bella artfully designs an architectural salad. As she 
          reaches for an APPLE, Edward is suddenly next to her 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD 
          (charmed)
          Edible art..
          .
          
          
          Startled, she fumbles and drops the apple -- Edward catches 
          it with his foot, hackeysack style, then bounces it back into 
          his hand, the red of the apple, stark against his pale skin. 
          He presents it to her with small smile.
          
          
          BELLA
          Thanks... but your mood swings are 
          giving me whiplash.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I said it would be better if we weren't 
          friends, not that I didn't want to be. 
          
          
          
          34.
          BELLA
          What does that even mean?
          
          
          EDWARD
          It means if you were smart, you'd 
          avoid me.
          
          
          Edward inadvertently glances at his four inhumanly beautiful 
          siblings, who wait for him, expectantly, at their table. 
          
          
          She notes her own, very human friends monitoring this 
          conversation from their table. Mike glowers jealously.
          
          
          BELLA
          So let's say, for argument's sake, 
          that I'm not smart. Would you talk 
          to me? Tell me the truth? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Probably not. I'd rather hear your 
          theories.
          
          
          BELLA
          Okay... how ‚Äòbout radioactive 
          spiders? Kryptonite?
          
          
          EDWARD
          (levels his gaze, 
          
          
          challenging)
          You're talking about superheroes. 
          What if I'm not a hero? What if 
          I'm a bad guy?
          
          
          BELLA
          (beat, looking closer at him)
          No. I don't believe that. You're 
          not bad. You can be a jerk, but 
          it's like this... mask. To keep 
          people away. 
          
          
          He's taken aback by her honesty, her insight, drawn in by her..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          Look, why don't we just - hang out. 
          Like... come to the beach with us. 
          It'll be fun - sand fleas, wind burn, 
          salt water stinging your eyes..
          .
          
          
          EDWARD
          (small smile, considering 
          it)
          Which beach?
          
          
          BELLA
          La Push. 
          
          
          
          35.
          His smile lessens almost imperceptibly. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Is something wrong with that beach?
          
          
          Edward glances over at Mike - the two exchange cold looks.
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's just a little crowded.
          
          
          Off Bella, as Edward walks away..
          .
          
          
          48 EXT. LA PUSH BEACH - DAY 48
          
          
          It's freezing, but Mike, Tyler, Jessica and others suit up
          for a surf. Eric hangs with them. Bella wanders by the 
          driftwood with Angela, who takes photographs. 
          
          
          ANGELA
          I keep thinking Eric's going to ask me 
          to prom, then he just... doesn't.
          
          
          BELLA
          You could ask him. 
          (off Angela's flustered 
          
          
          look)
          Take control. You're a strong 
          independent woman.
          
          
          ANGELA
          I am?
          
          
          JACOB (O.S.
          )
          Bella!
          
          
          She looks up to see three Quileute boys approaching the group; 
          Jacob Black, and SAM and EMBRY. Bella smiles at Jacob. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Guys, this is Jacob. Are you 
          stalking me?
          
          
          JACOB
          You're on my rez, remember? You 
          surfing?
          
          
          BELLA
          Definitely not. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          (teasing)
          Keep her company. Her date bailed. 
          
          
          ERIC
          What date?
          
          
          
          36.
          JESSICA
          She invited Edward. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (embarrassed)
          To be polite.
          
          
          ANGELA
          I think it's nice she invited him. 
          No one ever does.
          
          
          MIKE
          Because Cullen's a freak.
          
          
          SAM
          You got that right.
          
          
          BELLA
          You know them?
          
          
          SAM
          (sharply)
          The Cullens don't come here.
          
          
          Jacob shoots Sam a look, shakes his head. Bella registers this. 
          A beat, then she casually pulls Jacob aside 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          You want to go look at tide pools?
          
          
          She offers an awkwardly flirtatious smile. He grins, 
          infatuated. As they head toward the water..
          .
          
          
          EXT. LA PUSH BEACH - LATER DAY 49
          
          
          Bella and Jacob wander near the water, looking out to sea for 
          whales. The surfers are out on the waves. She nudges him, 
          continuing her attempt at flirtation..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          So, what did your friend mean about 
          the Cullens not coming here?
          
          
          JACOB
          Oops. Caught that, huh? 
          
          
          He moves closer to her, lowering his voice for mock-secrecy. 
          
          
          JACOB
          I'm not supposed to say anything.
          
          
          Bella gives him her best alluring smile.
          
          
          BELLA
          I can keep a secret..
          .
          
          
          
          37.
          JACOB
          
          
           (laughing) 
          It's just an old scary story. Did 
          you know the Quileutes are 
          supposedly descended from wolves?
          
          
          BELLA
          Like fur, fangs ... doggy breath?
          
          
          Jacob chuckles. Bella smiles and prompts him to continue..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          So the legend about the Cullens is..
          .
          
          
          JACOB
          Well, they're supposedly descended 
          from this, like..
          .
          
          
           (in a spooky voice)
          
          
          ‚Äúenemy clan.‚Äù ... But they 
          claimed to be different, so we made 
          a treaty with them. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Didn't they just move here?
          
          
          JACOB
          Or just moved back.
          
          
          BELLA
          Riiiight. So what was this treaty?
          
          
          JACOB
          
          
           (whispering)
          If they promised to stay off Quileute 
          lands, we wouldn't expose what they 
          really were to the pale-faces..
          . 
          
          
          Jacob pauses dramatically --Bella shivers. 
          
          
          GIRL (O.S)
          AAAAAAAAGH!!!!!!
          !
          
          
          Bella JUMPS at the bloodcurdling scream, as Angela runs past, 
          chased by Eric waving a dead crustacean. Jacob smirks and 
          starts back to the group.
          
          
          BELLA
          Wait... what were they really? 
          
          
          JACOB 
          (laughing)
          It's just a story, Bella.
          
          
          Off Bella, with more unanswered questions..
          .
          
          
          
          38.
          50 EXT. SHACK COMMUNITY ON THE RIVER - LATE AFTERNOON 50
          
          
          A collection of haphazard shacks and boat docks, connected by 
          wood plank sidewalks. FIND Waylon Forge (the hippy logger 
          who used to play Santa Claus) scraping paint off his boat, 
          swigging a pint as he listens to his prehistoric Walkman. 
          
          
          His old DOG lies next to him as the sounds of the forest and 
          river chirp and buzz. Waylon sings along to his Walkman..
          . 
          
          
          Suddenly, the sounds of nature abruptly SILENCE themselves. The 
          dog raises his head, starts to GROWL. Waylon doesn't notice.
          
          
          STAY ON WAYLON, singing, working... until he looks up and 
          realizes the dog's gone.
          
          
          WAYLON
          Jerry?
          
          
          Waylon pulls off the headphones. WHISTLES. No dog. Waylon 
          walks up a walkway... then sees a DOG LEG, sticking out from 
          under a bush. 
          
          
          WAYLON
          Come on, Jerry, you old mutt..
          .
          
          
          He pulls at the leg. It's detached. He reels back, stumbling 
          onto his boat, frantically untying the line and pushing out 
          -
          
          
          ON THE WATER - Waylon floats, breath short, listening acutely. 
          
          
          WAYLON'S POV -ON THE WOODS lining the river. Ominous
          darkness. A NOISE. He jerks around. Nothing. Then 
          suddenly, his boat ROCKS violently; he spins 
          -
          
          
          A MAN - now stands on the bow. JAMES, 30, pale white. 
          A 
          vampire. But his eyes, unlike the Cullens, are a deep, 
          sinister BURGUNDY, and absolutely lethal. His catlike 
          movements are always on the edge of a crouch.
          
          
          WAYLON
          H-how did you do that?
          
          
          JAMES
          Always the same inane questions..
          .
          
          
          Waylon turns but a woman LEAPS onto the bow --it's VICTORIA,
          26, chaotic red hair filled with leaves from the woods. 
          Terrified, Waylon spins around to see LAURENT, 28, glossy 
          black hair, olive skin, lounging on his boat seat. All three 
          Nomads wear frayed clothes, and all three are bare foot.
          
          
          JAMES
          ‚ÄúWhat do you want?
          ‚Äù
          
          
          
          39.
          VICTORIA
          ‚ÄúWhy are you doing this?
          ‚Äù 
          
          
          LAURENT
          (sighs, slight French 
          accent)
          ... James, must we?
          
          
          JAMES
          The question should be, ‚Äúwill it hurt?
          ‚Äù
          
          
          Victoria grins sadistically. Then with lightening fast 
          speed, the three of them VIOLENTLY LUNGE 
          -
          
          
          SMASH TO BLACK:
          
          
          51 FADE IN ON EDWARD'S FACE AGAINST BLACKNESS 51
          
          
          SNAPSHOTS of his eyes, his cheekbones, his lips..
          .
          
          
          52 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - ON HER FACE - MORNING 52
          
          
          As she sits in front of her computer, lost in thought. She 
          shakes herself out of it and types into her search engine 
          ‚ÄúQuileute legends, Olympic Peninsula.‚Äù An AD pops up,
          ‚ÄúThunderbird & Whale Book Store, Port Angeles.‚Äù Bella,
          intrigued, clicks on it..
          . 
          
          
          53 EXT. FORKS HIGH SCHOOL - SUNNY DAY 53
          
          
          The sun has come out and so has the skin. Kids are in shorts 
          though it's still barely sixty degrees. Everyone eats lunch 
          outdoors. Bella searches the crowd for Edward.
          
          
          JESSICA (O.S.
          )
          He's not here.
          
          
          She looks down to find Jessica sitting on the grass.
          
          
          JESSICA
          
          
          Whenever the weather's nice, the 
          
          
          Cullens disappear. 
          
          
          BELLA
          They just... ditch?
          
          
          JESSICA
          
          
          No, Dr. and Mrs. Cullen yank ‚Äòem 
          
          
          out for hiking and camping and 
          
          
          stuff. I tried the idea out on my 
          
          
          parents. Not even close. 
          
          
          Bella registers this as Angela suddenly jumps on them.
          
          
          
          40.
          ANGELA
          I'm going to the prom with Eric! 
          I 
          just asked him, I took control! 
          
          
          (hugs Bella)
          Are you sure you have to go out of town?
          
          
          BELLA
          It's a family thing.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Oh my God, we need to hit the 
          stores in Port Angeles before the 
          dresses get cleaned out. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Port Angeles?..
          . 
          (a plan forming in her 
          mind)
          Can I go with you guys? 
          
          
          ANGELA
          Thank God. We need your opinion.
          
          
          Off Bella, that's not really what she had in mind..
          .
          
          
          54 INT. BOUTIQUE, PORT ANGELES -ON BELLA'S FACE- AFTERNOON 54
          
          
          -- antsy, distracted, as Jessica and Angela try on dresses. 
          Bella pulls a Mapquest print-out from her purse -- it reads, 
          ‚ÄúThunderbird and Whale Book Store.‚Äù Jessica flounces out of
          the changing room, posing provocatively.
          
          
          JESSICA
          I think this halter makes my boobs 
          look big. What do you think, 
          Bella?
          
          
          Outside the window, a group of rowdy FRAT BOYS head toward 
          a 
          bar. Two of them stare at Jessica in her low-cut dress. 
          Embarrassed, she turns back to Bella. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          Bella?
          
          
          BELLA
          (absently)
          It looks great. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          You said that about the last five 
          dresses.
          
          
          ANGELA 
          (empathetic)
          You're not very good at this, are you?
          
          
          
          41.
          BELLA
          
          
          Maybe I should just go check out the 
          
          
          book store and meet you at the 
          
          
          restaurant later.
          
          
          ANGELA
          You sure?
          
          
          Bella nods, heads out. Jessica's looks in the mirror again.
          
          
          JESSICA
          
          
          She was right about this halter, 
          
          
          though. It does look great.
          
          
          55 OMITTED 55
          
          
          56 OMITTED 56
          
          
          57 EXT. THUNDERBIRD AND WHALE BOOKSTORE/STREETS - NIGHT 57
          
          
          Bella exits, thumbing through a BOOK she just bought. She 
          heads down the sidewalk, but then hears FOOTSTEPS behind her. 
          She turns, doesn't see anyone. She puts the book in her
          shoulder bag and continues.
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV - ON BELLA -someone's following her. She looks 
          around, changing course to cut across a parking lot. Unknown 
          POV gets closer... and closer, until she reaches 
          -
          
          
          58 EXT. WAREHOUSE AT END OF PARKING LOT - NIGHT 58
          
          
          Isolated. Bella, breath short, scared, turns around just as -
          -
          TWO MEN emerge from the shadows, not vampires, but the Frat 
          Boys, really wasted now. 
          
          
          FRAT BOY #
          1
          Wanna beer?
          
          
          She looks to her left; the other TWO GUYS are there. She's
          cornered. She takes her purse from around her shoulder.
          
          
          BELLA
          Look, just take my bag.
          
          
          FRAT BOY #
          2
          We don't want your bag.
          
          
          She takes a defensive stance and wraps the strap around her 
          wrist to use her purse as a mace. They chortle derisively. 
          But when Frat Boy #1 comes near, she swings it, hits him in 
          the groin. The BOOK in her bag doubles him over. The other 
          three laugh, and start to close in. But suddenly 
          -
          
          

          HEADLIGHTS blind them. A silver Volvo screeches up. The 
          Frat Boys dive out of the way. The passenger-side door 
          opens. It's Edward. She's too stunned to even move.
          
          
          
          42.
          EDWARD
          Get in.
          
          
          She finally does. But Frat Boy #2 jumps into the game and 
          rushes Edward's side of the car 
          -
          
          
          Edward SCREECHES to a halt and is out of the car and facing 
          Frat Boy #2 so fast, neither the Frat Boys, nor Bella, see it. 
          Nor does Bella see Edward's GLARE, so chilling, so animalistic
          in its fury that Frat Boy #2, scared, instinctively backs off. 
          As Edward climbs back into the car, Bella just stares at him.
          
          
          59 INT. EDWARD'S CAR - DRIVING - NIGHT 59
          
          
          Bella continues to stare. She sees that he's seething with anger,
          hands gripping the steering wheel, jaw clenched.
          
          
          BELLA
          What -- no, how did you find -- 
          ?
          
          
          EDWARD
          (through gritted teeth)
          I should go back and rip their heads off.
          
          
          BELLA
          No. Bad idea. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You don't know the vile, repulsive 
          things they were thinking.
          
          
          BELLA
          And you do?
          
          
          EDWARD
          (covering)
          Not hard to guess. 
          
          
          60 EXT. WATERFALL RESTAURANT - FRONT ENTRANCE - NIGHT 60
          
          
          Jessica and Angela exit the restaurant as Bella approaches.
          
          
          ANGELA
          Where were you!? We left you a message.
          
          
          JESSICA
          We waited, but we were starving 
          -
          
          
          Then they see Edward behind her, climbing out of his car. 
          They freeze, agog. He's composed now, making an effort to be
          charming. And they are charmed.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Sorry I kept Bella from dinner. We 
          ran into each other and got talking. 
          
          
          
          43.
          JESSICA
          I - we - understand. We were 
          just... leaving, so 
          -
          
          
          The two girls start to go. Bella is forced to go with them. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Okay, well. Thank you.
          
          
          She starts to follow the girls. Edward is torn, then abruptly 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (abruptly)
          Maybe I should make sure Bella gets 
          something to eat.
          
          
          (off Bella's surprised 
          
          
          look)
          ... If you'd like. Then I could 
          drive you back myself.
          
          
          ANGELA
          That's so... thoughtful.
          
          
          JESSICA
          Really thoughtful.
          
          
          BELLA
          (debates, then decides)
          I could eat.
          
          
          As he guides her off, the two girls share a look, and 
          a 
          noiseless scream of excitement. 
          
          
          EXT. WATERFALL RESTAURANT - DINING PATIO - NIGHT 61
          
          
          Bella and Edward sit on the deck. A dramatic waterfall 
          shimmers behind them.
          
          
          A waitress places a steaming plate of mesquite roasted salmon 
          in front of Bella and nothing in front of Edward. She exits.
          
          
          BELLA
          You're not eating?
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'm on a special diet.
          
          
          BELLA
          Like South Beach?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Not exactly.
          
          
          She looks at him curiously as she takes a bite.
          
          
          
          44.
          BELLA
          So how ‚Äòbout some answers?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Yes, no. To get to the other side, 
          and 1 point 772453851.
          
          
          BELLA
          I didn't ask for the square root of pi.
          
          
          EDWARD
          You knew that?
          
          
          BELLA
          How did you know where I was? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I didn't.
          
          
          She shakes her head, frustrated, and turns to go inside -
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          (stops her, sincerely)
          Don't go.
          
          
          He seems torn by some internal dilemma. Then finally..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          Were you following me?
          
          
          EDWARD
          I feel very protective of you. 
          
          
          BELLA
          So that's a yes?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Yes, I followed you. I tried to 
          keep my distance...until you needed 
          help.
          
          
          BELLA
          (putting everything together)
          You said before... That you heard 
          what those guys were thinking..
          . 
          Can you... read minds?
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (shrugs)
          I'm thinking of getting a nine-
          hundred number.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (trying to grasp)
          Alright, so you read minds... What am 
          I thinking? Wait -- okay now, go.
          
          
          
          45.
          EDWARD
          I have no idea. I can read every 
          mind in there, except yours. 
          
          
          (points at people 
          inside)
          Work, sex, money, sex, sex, boyfriend 
          -
          (points at Bella)
          Nothing. It's quite frustrating. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Why, what's wrong with me?
          
          
          EDWARD
          I tell you I read minds and you think 
          there's something wrong with you?
          
          
          He smiles, charmed by her. But his smile fades, that torn 
          look returns. He holds onto the rail, looking out. 
          
          
          BELLA
          What is it?
          
          
          EDWARD
          I... don't have the strength to 
          stay away from you anymore. 
          
          
          She's surprised. And thrilled.
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward, you don't have to.
          
          
          He's drawn in by her encouraging gaze... but he closes his
          eyes a beat, and turns back to the water.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (almost to himself)
          This is wrong. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          You're cold. We should go.
          
          
          He walks away before she can ask any more questions..
          .
          
          
          62 EXT. ROAD - NIGHT 62
          
          
          Edward's Volvo speeds along the two lane highway.
          
          
          63 INT. EDWARD'S VOLVO - NIGHT 63
          
          
          Bella glances at Edward, might ask him more questions but he seems 
          to be wrestling with his own thoughts. Finally..
          . 
          
          
          
          46.
          BELLA
          I think I'm warm enough now. 
          
          
          She reaches for the heater dial, he does as well -- their 
          hands TOUCH. And hold a moment too long. An electric 
          current connecting them.
          
          
          BELLA
          Your hand, it's still freezing cold.
          
          
          He pulls his hand away, but she keeps looking at it... then 
          her attention shifts outside to FLASHING POLICE LIGHTS. As 
          they drive past the FORKS POLICE STATION, a sheriff's car
          pulls away. Charlie's cruiser is parked out front. 
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (concerned)
          Dad's here late. Something must 
          have happened.
          
          
          EXT./INT. FORKS - POLICE STATION (CONTINUOUS) - NIGHT 64
          
          
          The Volvo pulls up. Bella and Edward climb out. Edward then 
          sees a second car next to the cruiser. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          That's my father's car. What's he -- 
          ?
          
          
          EDWARD AND BELLA'S POV: INSIDE THE DARKENED POLICE STATION
          
          
          In a pool of light, a distressed Charlie and Dr. Cullen study 
          photographs and evidence. As they wrap up their discussion, 
          Dr. Cullen puts a sympathetic hand on Charlie's shoulder,
          then exits the police station looking grim. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Carlisle. What happened?
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Waylon Forge was found in the woods 
          out near his place. I just 
          examined the body.
          
          
          Edward darkens. Bella is horrified.
          
          
          BELLA
          He died? How? 
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Animal attack. 
          
          
          BELLA
          The same kind that killed the security 
          guard down in Mason?
          
          
          Edward and Dr. Cullen trade a look, subtle, but Bella catches it.
          
          
          
          47.
          DR. CULLEN
          Most likely.
          
          
          BELLA
          So it's getting closer to town.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Waylon lived all the way down on 
          Queets River. 75 miles south.
          
          
          BELLA
          But that's 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          (with a kind, reassuring 
          
          
          smile)
          Bella, you should go inside. 
          Waylon was your father's friend.
          
          
          She goes to the door, but looks back to see them conferring 
          quietly, gravely. Clearly, there's more to this.
          
          
          65 INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT 65
          
          
          Bella enters to find a distressed Charlie studying evidence, 
          photos, maps --trying to make sense of Waylon's death.
          Deputies come and go in the background. Bella approaches 
          Charlie. He looks up.
          
          
          BELLA
          Dad, I'm sorry about Waylon.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Known him going on thirty years. 
          
          
          He's obviously torn up. Bella isn't quite sure what to do.
          And so puts a comforting hand on his shoulder. A beat..
          . 
          
          
          Then Charlie squeezes her hand. It's the first physical
          affection we've seen between them. And it threatens to evoke
          even more emotion in Charlie. So he tamps it down, and rises, 
          then projects a confident manner. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          We'll get to the bottom of this, Bella. 
          But in the meantime..
          .
          
          
          As an ambulance pulls up outside, he opens a drawer, finds 
          out a cannister of PEPPER SPRAY. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          ... I want you to have this.
          
          
          BELLA
          That's probably not a good 
          -
          
          
          
          48.
          CHARLIE
          It'll give me some peace of mind. 
          
          
          She sees he needs this, and allows him to put it into her 
          purse. 
          
          
          As Charlie goes to get his coat, Bella steps outside to SEE 
          -
          
          
          A66 EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT - BELLA'S POV A66
          
          
          Two Attendants hoist a metal gurney into an ambulance. On it, 
          Waylon's dead, white, bloody bare FEET peek out from under 
          a
          sheet, resting at a disturbingly unnatural angle. Off Bella, 
          chilled..
          .
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          FLASH POP TO EDWARD'S BLACK EYES
          
          
          FLASH POP TO EDWARD'S COLD WHITE HAND.
          
          
          FLASH POP TO THE FIVE CULLENS, SLOW MOTION, beautiful and white.
          
          
          FLASH POP TO WAYLON'S TWISTED WHITE FEET
          
          
          INT. BELLA'S ROOM - ON BELLA - NIGHT 66
          
          
          -- as she turns on the LIGHT. She hears a SNAP! outside the 
          window. She rises, digs into her purse for the PEPPER SPRAY 
          Charlie gave her, and goes to the window. She looks out -
          -
          all she sees is the wind blowing hard. But she's rattled.
          
          
          She closes the curtains, then reaches for the BOOK she bought 
          earlier. She thumbs through, laying the pepper spray within 
          reach. 
          
          
          INSERT THE BOOK, ‚ÄúQUILEUTE FOLK STORIES AND ART.
          ‚Äù
          
          
          As she leafs through we see PHOTOS of ancient, carved MASKS. 
          Comical, menacing, haunting... then she stops on a photo of 
          a 
          white mask with black eyes and a row of sharp teeth. THE 
          INSCRIPTION reads, ‚ÄúThe Cold One.
          ‚Äù
          
          
          Bella quickly goes to her computer and Googles ‚ÄúCold One ‚Äù -
          several beer ads appear. Frustrated, she closes the pop-ups, 
          revealing a link to: ‚ÄúThe Cold One: Apotamkin‚Äù -
          -
          
          
          INTERCUT BETWEEN BELLA AND THE COMPUTER SCREEN
          
          
          Several PICTURES begin loading: the seductive Apotamkin with his 
          ice-blue skin, devouring his victims in tapestries, engravings, 
          paintings. Creatures beautiful and horrific. Craven, skeletal 
          demons attacking villages; perfectly sculpted predators, luring 
          innocent maidens... it's all murder, blood, sexuality.
          
          
          THEN SEVERAL WORDS LEAP OUT in quick succession: 
          
          
          
          49.
          -- ‚ÄúSpeed.‚Äù ‚ÄúStrength.‚Äù ‚ÄúCold skinned.‚Äù ‚ÄúImmortal... 
          ‚Äú 
          Then finally: ‚ÄúBlood drinker.
          ‚Äù 
          
          
          And we LAND ON A PICTURE OF A HANDSOME MAN BITING A WOMAN'S
          WHITE NECK..
          . 
          
          
          FLASH POP TO THE SAME PICTURE AS IT MOMENTARILY COMES ALIVE, 
          BUT NOW IT'S EDWARD BITING BELLA'S NECK, BLOOD DRIPPING 
          -
          
          
          BACK ON BELLA - she reels back from the computer in utter 
          disbelief.
          BELLA
          ... it's not possible..
          . 
          Off BELLA'S FACE, struggling to make sense of it all..
          .
          MATCH CUT:
          
          
          67 
          EXT. SCHOOL -LAWN -ON BELLA'S FACE -DAWN --THICK FOG 67
          She stands in the center of the deserted, green lawn. Her 
          expression tells us she's still reeling with disbelief. STAY 
          ON HER FACE, TIME LAPSING AS: 
          
          
          The bell rings and students exit class, rushing past Bella as 
          she stands still, waiting..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - EDWARD AND HIS SIBLINGS
          -- cross the lawn, heading to class. Edward sees Bella, sees 
          the intensity on her face. He stops. 
          
          
          She walks to him, eyes meeting his... her look says, we have 
          to talk... and she continues directly past him, into the dark 
          forest that borders the school. 
          
          
          He watches her disappear in the trees, then takes a step to 
          follow. Jasper moves in front of him, Rosalie grabs his arm. 
          ROSALIE
          Edward, don't go.
          But Alice gently removes Rosalie's hand from his arm.
          ALICE
          He's already there.
          
          
          68 
          EXT. FOREST - DAY 68
          Bella stands amid the trees, waiting. Then the SOUNDS OF THE 
          FOREST abruptly drop out. A predator is near. Edward 
          appears behind her. She doesn't turn around. A beat.
          
          
          
          50.
          BELLA
          You're impossibly fast. And strong. 
          Your skin is pale-white, ice-cold. 
          Your eyes change color. And 
          sometimes you speak like... you're 
          from a different time. 
          
          
          (turns to face him now)
          You never eat food, or drink, or 
          come out in the sunlight. And you 
          said no to the beach trip only after 
          you heard where it was. Because of 
          the treaty. 
          
          
          This last registers with him. She steps closer to him.
          
          
          BELLA
          How old are you?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Seventeen.
          
          
          BELLA
          How long have you been seventeen?
          
          
          A long beat as we begin to CIRCLE THEM. He sees he can't hide
          anymore. Honesty is an enormous risk, but he has to take it.
          
          
          EDWARD
          ... A while.
          
          
          She inhales. She knew, but it's still shocking. We CIRCLE
          THEM FASTER 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          I know what the Cold Ones are. 
          What you are. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Say it. Out loud. Say it.
          
          
          All sound suddenly DROPS OUT. We hear only her whisper..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          ... Vampire
          
          
          They seem to hover in momentary stasis, him utterly exposed, her 
          reality utterly rocked. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Are you afraid?
          
          
          BELLA
          No. 
          
          
          
          51.
          EDWARD
          
          
          (angry)
          Then ask me the most basic 
          question: what do we eat?
          
          
          BELLA
          You won't hurt me. You're different.
          
          
          EDWARD
          You think you know me?
          
          
          He glares at her. She holds her ground. Suddenly, he takes 
          her by the hand. Starts walking. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Where are we going?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Up the mountain. Out of the cloud 
          bank. You need to see what 
          I 
          really am. What I look like in the 
          harsh light of the sun. 
          
          
          BELLA
          No! The sunlight will kill you.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Myth. You need to see the truth.
          
          
          He pulls her but she stumbles. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Slow down.
          
          
          Suddenly, he's right next to her.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Are you afraid? 
          
          
          BELLA
          No.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Then come with me. Someplace where 
          no one can protect you. Where 
          I 
          could do what I've wanted to do from 
          the first moment I met you. 
          
          
          Their proximity is intense, riveting both of them. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm not afraid.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          You should be.
          
          
          
          52.
          He abruptly and effortlessly scoops her up into his arms. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Hold on.
          
          
          Then he flings her onto his back... and starts running.
          
          
          69 EXT. FOREST - RUNNING - DAY 69
          
          
          As in the opening sequence, Edward races through the forest, dark 
          trunks STROBING past as he picks up speed, faster and faster. 
          Bella clings to his back as it seems he'll collide with the trees, 
          but he avoids them with supernatural grace. It's frightening, 
          nauseating, intoxicating. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Are you afraid!
          ?
          
          
          BELLA
          No!
          
          
          But she clings tighter. Terrified. They climb in altitude. 
          Higher and higher, above the fog layer. Finally, up ahead 
          -
          
          
          THE FOREST'S EDGE fast approaches, a clearing is beyond. The
          sunlight glows white hot beyond the trees... they're about to 
          emerge from the shadowy darkness... but suddenly-
          
          
          Bella finds herself sitting on the ground, against a tree. 
          All is silent. She's dizzy, tries to regain her equilibrium. 
          Then she realizes she's alone. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward? Where are you?
          
          
          She rises, then steps just beyond the fringe of the ferns into 
          -
          
          
          70 EXT. A MEADOW (CONTINUOUS) - DAY 70
          
          
          A perfect circle of swaying grass, wildflowers and buttery 
          sunlight. HEAR a stream nearby. Bella looks around and finally 
          sees 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD, his shirt open, standing nearby in the shade of some 
          trees. He watches her cautiously. She takes a step toward 
          him, but he holds up a hand. She waits. Finally, he takes 
          a 
          deep breath, and steps out of the shade 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          This is why we don't show ourselves 
          
          
          in sunlight..
          . 
          
          
          As the sun hits him... EDWARD'S SKIN literally sparkles as if 
          embedded with thousands of tiny diamonds. He is magnificent, 
          shimmering, like a statue carved from glittering crystal. He 
          moves toward her. 
          
          
          
          53.
          EDWARD
          This is what I am.
          
          
          He nears, clearly expecting her to recoil, but..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA
          You're... beautiful..
          .
          
          
          He realizes that she's in awe. She reaches to touch him, but 
          he immediately backs into the shadows, his skin normal again. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (appalled)
          Beautiful? I'm a killer, Bella. 
          This is the skin of a killer. 
          
          
          His arm juts into A SHAFT OF LIGHT, sparkling again.
          
          
          BELLA
          I don't believe that.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Because you believe the lie. The 
          camouflage. I'm the world's most 
          dangerous predator. Everything 
          about me invites you in - my voice, 
          my face, even my smell. As if 
          I 
          need any of that..
          .
          
          
          He's suddenly BEHIND her --then IN FRONT of her --then by 
          a
          tree, DARTING so fast, we only see where he lands 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          As if you could outrun me. As if 
          you could fight me off.
          
          
          He abruptly rips off a LARGE TREE LIMB, then THROWS it against 
          a 
          tree trunk with explosive force. 
          
          
          Bella flinches, but holds her ground, unshakable. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'm designed to kill.
          
          
          BELLA
          I don't care.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I've killed people.
          
          
          BELLA
          It doesn't matter.
          
          
          
          54.
          EDWARD
          I wanted to kill you. I've never
          wanted a human's blood so much in 
          my life. I'm dangerous to you.
          
          
          BELLA
          I trust you.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Don't.
          
          
          BELLA
          I trust you, Edward. I'm here.
          
          
          She takes his hand. He reels at the warmth of her touch. 
          She leans in, drawn to him, unaware that her THROAT is 
          nearing his lips... then suddenly he's gone.
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward?
          
          
          She looks over to FIND he's on the other side of the meadow, 
          catching his breath.
          
          
          EDWARD
          You... took me by surprise. 
          (collecting himself)
          I don't know how to... do this.
          
          
          He moves back toward her. Slowly. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Me, and my family, we're different 
          from others of our kind. We're not 
          nomadic, we have a permanent home. 
          We only hunt animals. We've 
          learned to control our thirst..
          . 
          
          
          (shaking his head)
          But you - your scent, it's like 
          a 
          drug to me... my own personal brand 
          of heroin. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (realizing)
          Oh... I thought you hated me when we met.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I did. For making me want you so badly. 
          I'm still not sure I can control myself.
          
          
          He reaches her again.
          
          
          BELLA
          I know you can.
          
          
          
          55.
          He's utterly vulnerable as he looks at her, searching her
          face for clues.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I wish I could understand this 
          thing you see in me. You look at 
          me with those eyes..
          . 
          
          
          (frustrated)
          I can't read your mind. Tell me 
          what you're thinking.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm afraid.
          
          
          Stricken, he sinks gracefully to his knees in the grass.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (devastated)
          Good. 
          
          
          She sinks down in front of him.
          
          
          BELLA
          Not of that. I'm afraid... you'll 
          disappear. That I'll lose you.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (amazed, elated)
          You don't know how long I've looked 
          for you.
          
          
          They share a smile. Then he reaches toward her neck, 
          pausing..
          .
          
          
          EDWARD
          Be very still.
          
          
          She does so. Exercising great control, he places his hand on 
          her throat... it's so exposed, so vulnerable. The rush
          between them is overwhelming. But Bella doesn't move.
          
          
          He brushes his hand up her cheek. Then lowers it to her 
          heart... Clouds float past the sun..
          .
          
          
          They're both overwhelmed, taking each other in.
          
          
          EDWARD
          And so the lion fell for the lamb.
          
          
          BELLA
          Stupid lamb.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Sick masochistic lion.
          
          
          
          56.
          CRANE UP on the two of them, laying together, as close as 
          they dare... his hand to her heart..
          .
          
          
          DISSOLVE TO:
          
          
          71 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - MORNING 71
          
          
          CLOSE ON BELLA'S FACE. Still in bed. Thinking.
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          About three things I was absolutely 
          positive. One, Edward was 
          a 
          vampire. 
          
          
          She rises, goes to the mirror. Looks at herself, worry 
          knitting her brow.
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          Two, there was a part of him that 
          thirsted for my blood. And three..
          .
          
          
          As she moves past her window, something catches her eye, causing 
          her to BANG into her desk. She looks back out..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - THE DRIVEWAY
          
          
          Edward leans against his car, looking up at her with a small 
          smile. She beams at the sight of him. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          ... I was falling, unconditionally 
          and irrevocably, in love with him. 
          
          
          72 OMITTED 72
          
          
          73 EXT. OLYMPIC RAINFOREST - DAY (ANOTHER DAY) 73
          
          
          Edward helps Bella balance-walk across an enormous fallen pine 
          tree in the moss-covered forest. 
          
          
          BELLA
          How long have you been like this?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Since nineteen-eighteen. That's 
          when Carlisle found me. 
          
          
          She takes that in, it's a lot. But it stokes her curiosity.
          
          
          BELLA
          Where'd he find you?
          
          
          EDWARD
          In a hospital, dying of Spanish 
          influenza. My parents had already died. 
          
          
          
          57.
          FLASHBACK to CHICAGO HOSPITAL, 1918 - NIGHT
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          What was it like?
          
          
          EDWARD (V.O.
          )
          The word excruciating comes to 
          mind. But what Carlisle did was 
          much harder... not many of us have 
          the restraint to do that. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          Didn't he just... bite?
          
          
          EDWARD
          Not just. Our bite contains venom. 
          And once we taste blood, a sort of..
          . 
          frenzy begins. It's almost 
          impossible to stop. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          But Carlisle did. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          First with me, then with his wife, 
          Esme. He found her in a hospital, 
          as well. The others followed.
          
          
          BACK to PRESENT DAY
          
          
          BELLA 
          Does someone have to be dying to 
          become like you?..
          .
          
          
          Their CONVERSATION CONTINUES as we go to 
          -
          
          
          74 EXT. RIVER'S EDGE - DAY (ANOTHER DAY) 74
          
          
          They walk along a stunning coastline -- rugged black rocks, 
          covered in bright green moss.
          
          
          EDWARD
          ... No, that's just Carlisle. He 
          would never do... this, to someone 
          who had another choice. 
          
          
          BELLA
          So Carlisle's the reason why you 
          hunt animals, instead of people. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Not the only reason.
          
          
          He stops, looks down at her, serious, with emotion..
          .
          
          
          
          58.
          EDWARD
          I don't want to be a monster.
          
          
          She nods. Understands. He smiles.
          
          
          EDWARD
          We call ourselves vegetarians, by 
          the way... For our kind, hunting 
          animals is like living on tofu. It 
          keeps you strong but isn't very 
          satisfying. 
          
          
          Then abruptly, he whips past Bella. She turns to see him standing 
          on a large rock in the river.
          
          
          BELLA
          Show off.
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's not that impressive, really. 
          Anyone in my family can do this.
          
          
          BELLA
          Can they all read minds, too? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          No, that's unique to me. But Alice can 
          see the future. 
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (fishing)
          Really? Bet she saw me coming 
          a 
          mile away.
          
          
          She notes his change of mood as he slows, darkening.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Her visions are very subjective. 
          The future can change.
          
          
          He cuts off her questions by returning to shore, and 
          continuing their walk..
          .
          
          
          75 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - TWILIGHT (ANOTHER DAY) 75
          
          
          Water sprays from a hose as Bella and Edward wash her truck. 
          A boom box PLAYS. He perches on top of the roof. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Come to my house tomorrow. 
          
          
          Bella looks up, aiming the hose badly - water ricochets off 
          the cab and sprays in her face. He jumps down from the roof.
          
          
          BELLA
          Your house? With your family?
          
          
          
          59.
          He wipes down the dented front fender, then reaches under it 
          and, with his bare hands, easily pops a large DENT out of the 
          truck's body. She's too flustered to register it.
          
          
          BELLA 
          But... what if they don't like me?
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (laughing heartily)
          You're worried, not because you'll 
          be in a houseful of vampires, but 
          because you think they won't 
          approve of you? 
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm glad I amuse you.
          
          
          But then his laughter dies, as he hears something. 
          
          
          BELLA
          What is it?
          
          
          EDWARD
          A complication.
          
          
          ... as a BLACK CAR comes into view, and pulls up. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'll pick you up tomorrow.
          
          
          He heads to his car, eying the passengers in 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD'S POV - INT. BLACK CAR
          
          
          Jacob, with his father, Billy, who's expression is intense.
          Anxious. SLOW MOTION as Edward locks eyes with Billy. Jacob 
          looks questioningly at his father.
          
          
          Bella watches Edward drive away, perturbed by the exchange. She 
          forces a smile and goes to greet the visitors. Jacob sets up 
          Billy's wheelchair and Billy climbs into it as 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          Come to visit your truck?
          
          
          JACOB
          Looks good. You got that dent out. 
          
          
          BILLY
          Actually, we came to visit your 
          flat screen. First Mariners game 
          of the season. Plus Jacob here 
          kept bugging me to see you again.
          
          
          
          60.
          JACOB
          (mortified)
          Great, Dad. Thanks. 
          
          
          Jacob shoots his father an irritated look, just as the POLICE 
          CRUISER pulls up. Charlie climbs out, holding two six-packs. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Pale Ale.
          
          
          BILLY
          (holds up a brown paper 
          BAG)
          Harry Clearwater's homemade fish fry.
          
          
          Charlie smiles, pleased. He clicks on the game as they all head 
          inside 
          -
          
          
          BILLY
          Any luck with the Waylon case?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          
          
          (darkening)
          Found a footprint out at the crime 
          scene today. A bare, human footprint. 
          
          
          Billy seems disturbed but not surprised. Bella is horrified.
          
          
          BELLA
          A person did that?
          
          
          JACOB
          A crazy person, walking around 
          barefoot this time of year.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Spread the word out at the rez, will 
          ya? Keep the kids out of the woods. 
          
          
          BILLY
          Will do. 
          (directed at Bella)
          Don't want no one else getting hurt.
          
          
          Bella looks away from Billy, unnerved.
          
          
          76 OMITTED 76
          
          
          77 OMITTED 77
          
          
          78 DREAM SEQUENCE - UNDERWATER 78
          
          
          Bella floats near Edward, only their hands touching, but 
          their bodies are nearing, so close, so sensual..
          . 
          
          
          
          61.
          Suddenly, EDWARD IS YANKED DOWNWARD! Something has him, 
          pulling him down..
          . 
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          79 
          INT. BELLA'S ROOM - ON BELLA - MORNING 79
          -- as her eyes pop open... and relief sweeps over her as she 
          realizes it was just a dream. But it haunts her..
          .
          
          
          80 
          EXT. OLYMPIC PENINSULA - ROAD - DAY 80
          
          
          AERIAL SHOT of the forest as we sweep over its lush green 
          expanse, to FIND Edward's Volvo speeding along, very fast. 
          The Volvo finally turns off the paved highway and onto a long 
          
          
          serpentine dirt road. FOLLOW THE CAR until, finally, it 
          reaches a small meadow, in the center of which sits 
          -
          
          
          81 
          EXT. CULLEN HOUSE - DAY 81
          A timeless graceful house. The Volvo pulls up and Bella 
          climbs out, surprised.
          
          
          BELLA
          It's... wonderful.
          EDWARD
          You expected turrets, dungeons and moats? 
          BELLA
          No... not moats.
          He takes her hand. She girds herself. They head inside.
          
          
          82 
          INT. CULLEN HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 82
          Edward guides Bella into the large, bright house. Walls of glass 
          look out on the river. Everything's open and white. Historical
          objects are tastefully placed throughout. 
          
          
          HEAR Verdi's ‚ÄúLa Traviata: Libiamo ne' lieti calici‚Äù coming from
          another room. Bella is enraptured.
          BELLA
          It's so light and open. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Thanks to tinted windows... It's the one 
          place we never have to hide.
          
          
          We then notice CLANGING coming from the kitchen. Edward 
          shakes his head.
          EDWARD
          I told them not to do this.
          
          
          
          62.
          83 INT. CULLEN HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 83
          
          
          Verdi's opera BLASTS Bella and Edward who enter to find the
          kitchen in full swing. Dr. Cullen, Emmett, Rosalie, and ESME 
          prepare elaborate platters of Italian pastas and antipasti. 
          
          
          Esme rolls out a pizza dough and fans tomatoes around it in an 
          instant. Rosalie stirs a pot, disinterested. 
          
          
          Esme sees Bella and stops, emanating maternal warmth. Her 
          heart-shaped face and billows of hair are reminiscent of the 
          silent-movie era. 
          
          
          ESME
          
          
          Bella. We're making Italiano for 
          
          
          you. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          This is Esme, my mother for all 
          
          
          intents and purposes. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Bon giorno?
          
          
          ESME
          Molto bene! 
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          
          
          You've given us an excuse to use 
          
          
          the kitchen for the first time. 
          
          
          Hit pause..
          .
          
          
          PAN across brand new Williams-Sonoma cookware boxes to the 
          corner --they're watching an ITALIAN COOKING SHOW on a TV.
          Emmett hits the DVD remote control. 
          
          
          ESME
          I hope you're hungry.
          
          
          BELLA
          Oh, absolutely 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          She already ate.
          
          
          Bella shoots him a look, but something SHATTERS. Rosalie has 
          thrown down a bowl and now strides out 
          -
          
          
          ROSALIE
          Perfect.
          
          
          
          63.
          84 INT. LIVING ROOM (CONTINUOUS) - DAY 84
          
          
          -- Bella exits behind Rosalie, trying to explain. The 
          other's follow -
          
          BELLA
          I just assumed -- because you don't 
          eat, you know..
          .
          
          
          ESME
          Of course. That was very considerate 
          of you.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (re: Rosalie)
          Ignore her. I do.
          
          
          ROSALIE
          Yes, let's keep pretending this 
          isn't dangerous for all of us. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I would never, ever tell anyone.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          (reassuring)
          She knows that. 
          
          
          EMMETT
          The problem is, you two have gone 
          public now, so..
          .
          
          
          ESME
          
          
          Emmett.
          
          
          ROSALIE
          No, she should know.
          
          
          (to Bella)
          The entire family will be 
          implicated if this ends badly. 
          
          
          BELLA
          ... Badly?
          
          
          This hangs in the air, uncomfortably. Edward can't look at her.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (realizing)
          Oh. Badly. Like, where I become 
          a 
          meal.
          
          
          Emmett chokes back laughter. Edward grins. Wraps his arm 
          around Bella. Even Esme has to chuckle.
          
          
          Rosalie, exasperated, heads back into the kitchen. Emmett 
          shrugs, goes after her.
          
          
          
          64.
          ALICE (O.S.
          )
          Hi, Bella!
          
          
          ON THE BALCONY Alice leaps over the rail, holding a bouquet 
          of wildflowers. Jasper follows her. She bounces forward to 
          kiss Bella's cheek and hands Bella the wildflowers. 
          
          
          ALICE
          
          
          I'm Alice. You do smell good. 
          EDWARD 
          Alice. 
          ALICE 
          
          It's alright, Bella and I are going 
          to be great friends. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (extending her hand)
          And you're Jasper, right?
          
          
          JASPER
          Pleasure to meet you.
          
          
          But he shies away from her hand. 
          
          
          ALICE
          (gently encouraging)
          You won't hurt her, Jasper.
          
          
          He isn't so sure. Edward takes Bella's hand instead.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'll give you a tour of the house. 
          
          
          ALICE
          (with meaning)
          I'll see you soon.
          
          
          Edward shoots Alice a look, which Bella catches before he guides 
          her up the stairs. As they ascend, Bella takes in the eclectic 
          ART PIECES from around the world, Ethiopian crosses, Dresden 
          China, Asian scrolls. They reach 
          -
          
          
          THE LANDING - to FIND a wall of dozens of artistically arrayed 
          silk squares with tassels. Bella looks closer. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Graduation caps?
          
          
          EDWARD
          A private joke. We matriculate a lot.
          
          
          BELLA
          What a nightmare, repeating high school. 
          
          
          
          65.
          EDWARD
          True, but the younger we start out in 
          a 
          new place, the longer we can stay there.
          
          
          She shivers at the thought of it, as they continue on..
          .
          
          
          85 INT. EDWARD'S ROOM - DAY 85
          
          
          EDWARD
          ... and this is my room.
          
          
          Bella enters to find a wall of glass doors open to a deck, with 
          the river beyond. The rest is floor to ceiling CD's, vinyl, 
          8
          track tapes, etc., with a sophisticated I-pod/stereo set up. 
          
          
          BELLA
          So you're obsessed with music. But..
          .
          (looking around)
          No bed?
          
          
          EDWARD
          No sleep.
          
          
          BELLA
          Ever?
          
          
          EDWARD
          No nightmares, no drool, no 
          snoring.
          
          
          She considers this, as she runs a hand along a wall of CD's,
          studying the titles.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Do you have any favorites?
          
          
          BELLA
          Depends. Alternative? Jazz? 
          Sixties, seventies..
          .
          
          
          EDWARD
          Ooh, she knows her music. Alright, 
          nineties. Eighteen-nineties. Classical.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'd have to say... Debussy.
          
          
          He looks at her, surprised, smiles. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          My favorite, too. 
          
          
          Off their connection, he pulls out a CD and puts it on. 
          A 
          solo piano version of CLAIR DE LUNE begins to play.
          
          
          
          66.
          He moves to her, taking her hand, then he starts to turn her 
          in a pirouette, dancing with her - but she breaks off and 
          backs away.
          
          
          BELLA
          No dancing.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Ever? 
          
          
          BELLA
          No tripping, no falling, no derision. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          (mischievously)
          I can always make you.
          
          
          BELLA
          You don't scare me.
          
          
          EDWARD
          You really shouldn't have said that.
          
          
          He grins, a low GROWLING SOUNDS in the back of his throat. 
          She laughs and backs out the door, onto 
          -
          
          
          86 EXT. EDWARD'S ROOM - DECK (CONTINUOUS) 86
          
          
          -- Bella backs up to the rail. Edward appears in the 
          doorway, shifting into a half-crouch, about to pounce. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Don't you dare -
          
          Suddenly, she's airborne as he tackles her and they FLY OFF THE 
          DECK... then she finds herself 
          -
          
          
          IN A TREE - in his arms. When she realizes where she is, she 
          laughs, delighted. It's infectious, he laughs heartily, too..
          .
          
          
          CUT AWAY TO:
          
          
          87 INT. CULLEN HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - SAME 87
          
          
          Esme and Dr. Cullen look out the window. Edward's LAUGHTER
          filters inside to them; Esme, in turn, smiles.
          
          
          ESME
          She's brought him to life.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          He's been alone too long... but how 
          can it end well?
          
          
          ESME
          Alice has been wrong before.
          
          
          
          67.
          DR. CULLEN
          Not often.
          
          
          Esme turns to Dr. Cullen, gentle but absolutely firm.
          
          
          ESME
          
          
          Carlisle. Bella is what he wants. 
          
          
          It will work out. Somehow. 
          
          
          Dr. Cullen smiles at her with love, then takes her hand as 
          they look back out the window..
          .
          
          
          EXT. TREE - SAME 88
          
          
          Edward looks Bella in the eye. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Trust me?
          
          
          BELLA
          In theory. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Then close your eyes.
          
          
          She does, warily. He grips her more firmly, then LEAPS them to 
          another tree like a flying squirrel! Then, again, to the TOP of 
          another tree. He easily gets a foothold, while holding Bella. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Open.
          
          
          She does... to the most astonishing bird's eye VIEW of the
          valley, river, and the mountains beyond. CAMERA whirls around 
          them allowing us a 360 degree view of their surroundings. Off 
          Bella's intoxicated face..
          .
          
          
          CUT AWAY TO:
          
          
          A89 EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY A89
          
          
          Jessica pops a volleyball in the air, doing practice serves. 
          Angela takes a picture of her, then points her camera around, 
          looking for another shot. Eric studies some fliers 
          advertising the prom. 
          
          
          JESSICA
          
          
          Monte Carlo? That's our prom 
          
          
          theme? 
          
          
          ERIC
          Gambling, tuxedos and -
          -
          (ala Sean Connery)
          Bond. James -- ow!
          
          
          -- as Jessica head-butts the ball which hits him in the face.
          
          
          
          68.
          ANGELA
          
          
          Oh. My. God.
          Angela, scanning for a shot, has frozen. Jessica and Eric 
          SEE 
          -
          
          
          BELLA AND EDWARD 
          -- arriving together. All eyes on campus are turning to 
          them, filled with curiosity, jealousy, envy. 
          BELLA
          Everyone's staring.
          EDWARD
          Not that guy over -- yeah, he just 
          looked.
          Off his rakish, but reassuring smile..
          .
          
          
          89 
          CLOSE ON A GERMAN SHEPHERD 89
          Moving fast, tracking. INCLUDE CHARLIE holding the leash 
          -
          EXT. FOREST - DAY
          --It's a hunting party, several dogs, half a dozen armed men.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Guys, we got something 
          -
          
          
          The Deputies hurry to Charlie. They gather around 
          -
          A FOOTPRINT. The dogs start pulling them in a certain 
          direction. As the posse takes off at a sprint 
          -
          
          
          UNKNOWN POV - ON CHARLIE, FROM A DISTANCE
          We watch Charlie and the posse move away... REVERSE to find 
          -
          JAMES - ATOP A KNOLL, WATCHING THEM
          Laurent stands next to him. Victoria jogs up.
          
          
          VICTORIA
          They took the bait. 
          
          
          JAMES
          By tomorrow they'll be half way to 
          Winnipeg. 
          
          
          Victoria lasciviously grabs James' shirt. Pulls him to her.
          VICTORIA
          I love when men chase me.
          
          
          
          69.
          He grins, then starts taking off her clothes. They pull each 
          other toward the woods with carnal lust. It barely registers 
          with Laurent, who continues to watch the posse with concern. 
          
          
          90 EXT./INT. FORKS COFFEE SHOP - LATE AFTERNOON 90
          
          
          Bella hurries toward the entrance, trying to keep the joy on her 
          face in check... with minimal success. Outside the door, she 
          passes Mike, hanging out with several of his basketball TEAMMATES.
          
          
          MIKE
          Yo, Arizona. So. You and Cullen.
          
          
          She shrugs, non-committal, but can't entirely hide a smile,
          as she hurries inside to Charlie's table and slides in.
          
          
          BELLA
          Sorry I'm late. Biology project. 
          
          
          Cora sets a top sirloin steak in front of Charlie, and plate 
          of seafood in front of Bella.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Ordered you the seafood combo.
          
          
          BELLA
          Order one for yourself next time. 
          You should cut back on the steak.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I'm healthy as a horse.
          
          
          CORA
          
          
          (concerned)
          Say Chief, boys want to know, you 
          find anything down by Queets River 
          today?
          
          
          Charlie's aware of the LOGGERS at the counter listening, too.
          He frames his answer carefully to keep everyone calm.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          The suspect's moving east. Kitsap 
          County Sheriff is taking over from 
          here. They're putting extra guys on.
          
          
          CORA
          Hope they catch him fast.
          
          
          She moves off, with a measure of relief. Charlie and Bella 
          pass each other the salt, butter for bread, etc., with an 
          easy rhythm now. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Your friends are flagging you.
          
          
          
          70.
          She turns to see Mike and the guys horsing around outside, 
          straws in their noses, making faces at her. She smiles.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          It's okay you wanna join them. I'm 
          just gonna turn in early anyway.
          
          
          BELLA
          Yeah, me, too. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          It's a Friday night. Go out. The 
          Newton boy's got a big smile for 
          you. Nice family, the Newtons.
          
          
          BELLA
          He's just a friend.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          None of the boys in town interest you?
          
          
          BELLA
          We're not really going to talk 
          about boys, are we?
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Just... you should be around people. 
          I leave you alone too much.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (with genuine affection)
          I've never minded being alone. Guess 
          I'm a lot like my dad that way. 
          
          
          Charlie smiles. These two have come a long way. Cora returns 
          -
          
          
          CORA
          Berry cobbler, two forks.
          
          
          She sets it between them. Off them, both reaching for forks..
          .
          
          
          91 INT. BELLA'S ROOM - NIGHT 91
          
          
          Bella, dressed for bed, looks out the window as she talks on the 
          phone with Rene. Bella's euphoria still lingers in her eyes..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          So spring training's going well?
          
          
          INTERCUT WITH:
          
          
          92 INT. CAFE - NIGHT 92
          
          
          Rene talks on her cell. Phil is in the background, post-batting 
          practice, chowing down with a couple of teammates.
          
          
          
          71.
          RENE
          Phil's working hard. We're looking 
          around for a house to rent, in case 
          it becomes permanent. You'd like 
          Jacksonville, baby. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Actually, Forks is kind of growing on me. 
          
          
          RENE
          (stops, knows there's 
          
          
          more)
          Could... a guy have something to do 
          with that?
          
          
          BELLA
          (small smile)
          Maybe..
          .
          
          
          RENE
          Tell me everything! Jock? Indie? Bet 
          he's smart. Is he smart?
          
          
          BELLA
          (trying to avoid lies)
          Well... he is kind of a history buff.
          
          
          -- this as she turns to find 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD LYING ON HER BED, smiling. She nearly drops the phone.
          
          
          BELLA
          I, uh... have to go.
          
          
          RENE
          No way, we gotta talk boys. Are 
          you being safe?
          
          
          Edward shoots her a look, he heard that. She's mortified.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'll call you later, Mom. 
          
          
          STAY ON BELLA who hangs up.
          
          
          BELLA
          How did you get in here?
          
          
          EDWARD
          The window. As always.
          
          
          BELLA
          You've been here before?
          
          
          EDWARD
          What else is there to do at night? 
          
          
          
          72.
          She pushes him. He grabs her hand and playfully pulls her 
          onto the bed, wrestling as 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          You're a peeping Tom! Perv!
          
          
          EDWARD
          Shh! The Chief will hear you!
          
          
          But the electricity of their physical contact quickly overwhelms 
          them, their laughter quieting. He studies her face.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I just... like watching over you. 
          
          
          He raises his fingers to her lips, sending a thrill up her spine.
          
          
          EDWARD
          There's something I'd like to try. 
          
          
          She nods, bedazzled by him. He takes her face in his hands, 
          hesitates to test himself, then he softly kisses her..
          . 
          
          
          What neither of them is prepared for is her response. Her 
          breath comes in a wild GASP. Her fingers knot in his hair, 
          clutching him to her. Lips part as she breathes his scent..
          .
          
          
          Then his hands gently, but forcefully push her face back. She 
          opens her eyes to see that his eyes are wild, his jaw clenched. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (mortified)
          Oh... I'm... oh.
          
          
          He relaxes slightly, looking at her blushing face.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'm stronger than I thought. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Wish I could say the same. I'm so 
          embarrassed.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Don't be. But we have to be careful.
          (serious)
          I can never lose control with you. Ever. 
          
          
          She nods, then carefully lies on his chest. He wraps his arms 
          around her. Off the two of them..
          .
          
          
          93 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 93
          
          
          Bella enters to find Charlie cleaning a rifle. He starts to 
          say hello but she just blurts out -
          -
          
          
          
          73.
          BELLA
          I have a date with Edward Cullen.
          
          
          He suddenly looks like he's having an aneurysm. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          He's too old for you.
          
          
          BELLA
          We're both juniors. I thought you 
          liked the Cullens. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          And I thought you weren't interested in 
          any of the boys in town. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward doesn't live ‚Äúin town.‚Äù And 
          it's in the early stage and -
          -
          whatever, he's outside right now.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Now? He's out there?
          
          
          BELLA
          He wants to meet you. Officially. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Good.
          
          
          He cocks the rifle in mock-seriousness.
          
          
          BELLA
          Be nice, okay? He's... important.
          
          
          Charlie gives his daughter a reassuring nod... then she opens 
          the door to REVEAL Edward in a parka and gloves. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Chief Swan. I wanted to formally 
          introduce myself. I'm Edward.
          
          
          Edward extends his hand. Charlie takes it, but grunts 
          a 
          hello, resisting him.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I won't keep Bella out late 
          tonight. We're just going to go 
          play baseball with my family.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Bella's going to play baseball?
          
          
          Bella's equally surprised, but hides it.
          
          
          
          74.
          EDWARD
          Yes, sir, that's the plan.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Well. More power to you, I guess.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (looks him in the eyes)
          She'll be safe with me, sir, I promise.
          
          
           As Edward exits... Charlie holds Bella back.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          (sotto)
          You got that pepper spray?
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Dad.
          
          
          94 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON 94
          
          
          Edward and Bella climb into a massive JEEP parked in the drive.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (amused)
          Your father thinks you should go to 
          an all-girl's school.
          
          
          BELLA
          No fair, reading Charlie's mind. 
          
          
          As they climb in the Jeep, Bella notices a baseball bat 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          And since when do vampires like baseball? 
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's the American pastime. Plus, 
          there's a thunderstorm coming. It's the 
          only time we can play. You'll see why.
          
          
          95 EXT. CLEARING IN WOODS - TWILIGHT 95
          
          
          Storm clouds gather in the sky as Bella and Edward pull up in 
          the Jeep. She takes in a rough baseball diamond, set into an 
          enormous field in the lap of the Olympic peaks. 
          
          
          Esme and Emmett come to greet Bella. 
          
          
          ESME
          Good thing you're here. We need 
          a 
          umpire. 
          
          
          EMMETT
          (big crooked grin)
          She thinks we cheat.
          
          
          
          75.
          ESME
          I know you cheat. Call ‚Äòem as you 
          see ‚Äòem, Bella.
          
          
          WHIP PAN to Alice on the Pitcher's Mound.
          
          
          ALICE
          It's time.
          
          
          -- Just as a deep RUMBLE of thunder shakes the forest.
          
          
          BEGIN MONTAGE - THE GAME
          
          
          And it's extraordinary. Bella stays by Esme who plays 
          catcher. Alice pitches with lightning-fast speed. Edward 
          and Emmett take positions in the outfield. 
          
          
          -- ROSALIE SMASHES the ball with the aluminum bat. It CRACKS 
          like thunder -- and is followed directly by real THUNDER. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (to Esme)
          Now I get why you need the thunder.
          
          
          The ball SHOOTS like a meteor deep into the forest, rocketing 
          through the trees. Edward disappears after it.
          
          
          BELLA
          That has to be a home run.
          
          
          ESME
          Edward's very fast.
          
          
          Rosalie darts around the bases, almost a blur -- Edward races out 
          of the forest with the ball and WHIPS it to home plate. WHAP! 
          Esme catches it a millisecond before Rosalie slides in.
          
          
          BELLA
          Yer out?
          
          
          Esme nods... Amazed, Bella watches as DR. CULLEN hits a line 
          drive. Edward and Emmett race for the catch, DIVING 15 feet 
          and COLLIDING with such might that it sounds like enormous 
          boulders falling. They miss the ball -- Dr. Cullen is safe! 
          
          
          JASPER WHACKS the next pitch -- deep into the forest. But 
          before Edward can chase it, Alice suddenly GASPS. 
          
          
          ALICE
          Stop! I didn't see them..
          . 
          
          
          They all stop. Edward is immediately at Bella's side. The 
          family instantly gathers at home plate. 
          
          
          ALICE
          They're traveling so quickly 
          -
          
          
          
          76.
          ROSALIE
          You said they left the county -
          -
          
          
          ALICE
          They did, but then they heard us..
          .
          (looking at Edward)
          And changed their minds.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (to Bella)
          Put your hair down 
          -
          
          
          ROSALIE
          Like that'll help. I could smell 
          her from across the field. 
          
          
          Edward ignores Rosalie as he arranges Bella's hair.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I shouldn't have brought you here. 
          I'm so sorry.
          
          
          She'd ask why, but suddenly, they all turn as one toward -
          
          THE EDGE OF THE FOREST
          
          
          There's a faint rustle... then James, Victoria and Laurent
          emerge. As they near, Bella SEES their bare feet, then the 
          deep BURGUNDY of their eyes. Laurent holds up the baseball. 
          
          
          LAURENT
          I believe this belongs to you.
          
          
          He tosses the ball (his casual toss is still blindingly fast) 
          to Dr. Cullen who easily catches it and smiles politely.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Thank you.
          
          
          LAURENT
          Could you use three more players?
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Of course.
          
          
          LAURENT
          I'm Laurent. This is Victoria. 
          And James.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Would you like to bat first?
          
          
          Laurent picks up a bat. The Cullens take the field. Dr. 
          Cullen is catcher, Edward is on first, with Bella behind him, 
          near the Jeep.
          
          
          
          77.
          Bella sees that Edward's eyes are locked onto James. Laurent
          is at bat first.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          I'm afraid your hunting activities have 
          caused something of a mess for us. 
          
          
          LAURENT
          Our apologies. We didn't realize 
          the territory had been claimed. 
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Yes, we maintain a permanent 
          residence.
          
          
          The three newcomers exchange a look of surprise.
          
          
          LAURENT
          Really? Well, we won't be a problem 
          any more.
          
          
          VICTORIA
          The humans were tracking us, but we 
          led them East-
          
          
          Jasper pitches the ball -- Laurent SLAMS it -- but Alice is 
          up a tree is a flash and the ball slams into Alice's hand
          with a THWAP. Laurent is pissed, but James smiles ever so 
          slightly, delighted at the discovery of worthy opponents.
          
          
          James is up next and he POWER-SLAMS IT with AMAZING FORCE..
          .
          
          
          He runs past first, past Edward, past Bella..
          .
          
          
          CLOSE ON BELLA -- IN SLOW MOTION as the wind from the ball 
          ruffles her hair, carrying her scent, which floats to 
          -
          
          
          JAMES -- who suddenly SCREECHES to a halt. His head WHIPS 
          around at her and he lurches into a crouch, his nostrils 
          flaring, excitedly, eyes locked on Bella.
          
          
          JAMES
          You brought a snack.
          
          
          EDWARD springs in front of Bella, baring his teeth. A truly 
          menacing, feral SNARL rips from his throat. James GROWLS back.
          
          
          OVERHEAD SHOT: in a flash, the Cullens rush into position 
          behind Edward -- Laurent and Victoria line up behind James. 
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          The girl is with us.
          
          
          
          78.
          LAURENT
          (trying to defuse 
          situation)
          We won't harm her.
          
          
          EMMETT
          (hungry for battle)
          Just try it.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          I think it best if you leave.
          
          
          LAURENT
          Yes, I can see the game is over. 
          We'll go now. James?
          
          
          But James' eyes don't leave Edward's. Laurent puts a hand on
          James' shoulder, and finally, James backs into the woods with
          his cohorts, disappearing. Once they're gone, Esme 
          immediately gathers up the bats-
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Get Bella out of here. We'll follow 
          them. 
          
          
          Dr. Cullen, Jasper and a resentful Rosalie race off after the 
          three vampires. Edward scoops Bella up as we 
          -
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - ON THE JEEP - LATE TWILIGHT 96
          
          
          Edward whips Bella into the Jeep and straps her in -
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          James is a tracker. I saw his mind. 
          The hunt is his obsession, and my 
          reaction set him off -
          -
          
          
          -- The tires spin as Edward WHIPS the jeep around 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          -- We're a large clan of strong fighters 
          all protecting one vulnerable human. 
          
          
          (dark with disgust)
          I just made this his most exciting 
          game ever.
          
          
          Bella blanches with the dawning realization of what she has just 
          wrought up on them all as..
          .
          
          
          THE JEEP CAREENS DOWN THE DIRT MOUNTAIN ROAD
          
          
          A jolting, death defying ride, SPLASHING through creeks, until 
          they reach 
          -
          
          
          
          79.
          97 EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - NIGHT 97
          
          
          THE JEEP speeds wildly down the road.
          
          
          EDWARD
          The first place he'll go is your 
          house. He'll track your scent 
          there.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (horrified)
          What?!? Charlie's there. He's in 
          danger because of me. Because of 
          us!
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (calmly)
          Then we'll lead the tracker away 
          from him. Somehow.
          
          
          He angrily WHIPS around a bend, MUD FLYING 
          -
          
          
          98 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 98
          
          
          Charlie watches a baseball game on T.V. as the door suddenly 
          BURSTS open to reveal Bella, crying, and Edward, devastated-
          
          
          BELLA
          I said, leave me alone! 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Bella, don't do this. Just think 
          about it, please 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          Get out! It's over.
          
          
          She SLAMS the door. Charlie has risen, baffled, concerned.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Bella? What happened? 
          
          
          BELLA
          I have to get out of this place. 
          Out of Forks. I'm leaving. Now.
          
          
          Bella runs upstairs. Charlie hurries after her 
          -
          
          
          99 INT. BELLA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 99
          
          
          Bella slams the door behind her. REVEAL Edward's already there,
          pulling things from her drawers and shoving them into a duffle 
          faster than humanly possible. Bella leans against the door. 
          
          
          
          80.
          BELLA
          (a pained whisper)
          I can't hurt him.
          
          
          Edward gives her a look, you have to. There's a KNOCK.
          
          
          INTERCUT Charlie on the other side. It's agony for both of them.
          
          
          CHARLIE 
          Bells. Did he hurt you?
          
          
          BELLA
          No, Dad. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Then what? Did he break up with you? 
          
          
          BELLA
          I broke up with him. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          I thought you liked him?
          
          
          BELLA
          That's why I have to leave. I don't 
          want this. I want to go home.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (whispering)
          I'll be in the truck.
          
          
          And he disappears out the window. Bella gathers strength to 
          continue her performance. She opens the door to reveal Charlie. 
          He follows as she carries her duffle and truck keys into 
          -
          
          
          100 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - STAIRS (CONTINUOUS) - NIGHT 100
          
          
          Bella charges down the stairs -- Charlie follows.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Your mother's not even in Phoenix. 
          
          
          BELLA
          She'll come home. I'll call her 
          from the road.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          You can't drive home now. I'll take 
          you to the airport in the morning.
          
          
          BELLA
          I want to drive. I need time to 
          think. I'll pull into a motel in 
          a 
          few hours. I promise.
          
          
          She heads down the stairs. Charlie follows..
          . 
          
          
          
          81.
          101 INT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE -LIVING ROOM (CONTINUOUS) -NIGHT 101
          
          
          Bella reaches the ground floor with Charlie on her heels. 
          She's almost to the door but Charlie blocks her. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          
          
          Bells, I know I'm not around much, 
          
          
          but I can change that. We can do 
          
          
          more things together.
          
          
          She takes a breath, hating herself for what she's about to say..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Like watch more baseball on the flat 
          
          
          screen? Or go to the Coffee Shop? 
          
          
          Same people, same steak, same berry 
          
          
          cobbler every night? That's you, 
          
          
          Dad. Not me.
          
          
          This hits Charlie hard. She can barely stand it, heads down 
          the stairs, as he takes a second to recover..
          .
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Bella... I just got you back.
          
          
          Which breaks Bella's heart... and forces her to deliver the
          final blow.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          And if I don't get out now, I'm 
          
          
          going get stuck here like mom did.
          
          
          Charlie is stunned, wounded. She takes advantage of his 
          shock, pushing past him out the door. 
          
          
          102 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT 102
          
          
          Bella exits, heads to her truck. Fresh tears spring to her 
          eyes. 
          
          
          ANGLE ON THE WOODS 
          
          
          Trees, branches... and a pair of DEADLY EYES. James. He watches 
          from a distance as Bella pulls out. The truck moves off... and 
          so does James, leaving Charlie alone with his pain, staring out 
          the window.
          
          
          103 INT. BELLA'S TRUCK - NIGHT 103
          
          
          Bella drives, wiping tears away. Suddenly Edward is outside 
          the car, near Bella's window. 
          
          
          
          82.
          EDWARD
          He'll forgive you.
          (off Bella's startled look)
          Slide over..
          .
          
          
          Bella slides over to the passenger side as Edward opens the 
          door, sliding in, and takes the wheel. Bella slumps.
          
          
          BELLA
          His face... I said the same words 
          my mother used when she left him. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          It was the only way he'd let you go. 
          
          
          Edward FLOORS it.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Your father's safe now, Bella. The 
          tracker is following us 
          -
          
          
          Suddenly, BOOM! - a dark figure LEAPS onto the bed of the 
          truck. Bella SCREAMS. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's alright. It's just Emmett. 
          Alice is in the car behind us. 
          
          
          She catches her breath. It kills him to see her so frightened. 
          She looks out the window as they drive through town..
          . 
          
          
          104 BELLA'S POV - EXT. FORKS COFFEE SHOP (CONT) - NIGHT 104
          
          
          The small, insulated town passes by in SLOW MOTION... INSIDE we 
          SEE Mike, Jessica, Eric and Angela laughing, flirting, innocent, 
          hopeful..
          .
          
          
          105 EXT. CULLEN HOUSE - NIGHT 105
          
          
          Edward, Emmett and Alice rush Bella from the truck to the 
          house... but freeze when the door opens and Laurent exits. They 
          immediately take defensive positions but Dr. Cullen appears.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          He came to warn us. About James.
          
          
          They back down slightly. Laurent address Dr. Cullen.
          
          
          LAURENT
          I've grown tired of his games. But 
          he's got unparalleled senses. 
          Absolutely lethal. I've never seen 
          anything like him in three hundred 
          years ... And the woman, Victoria, 
          will back him. Don't underestimate 
          her.
          
          
          
          83.
          Dr. Cullen nods thanks. Laurent looks at Edward, apologetic. 
          
          
          LAURENT
          I'm truly sorry for what's been 
          unleashed here.
          
          
          And he moves off, disappearing into the woods..
          .
          
          
          106 INT. CULLEN HOUSE - FOUR CAR GARAGE - NIGHT
          
          
          The side door BURSTS OPEN as Edward and the Cullens enter, 
          followed by Bella. The lights flip on to reveal a pristine 
          garage; the Volvo, the red BMW, a black Mercedes sedan, an SUV. 
          
          
          Everyone but Rosalie springs into action, opening cupboards for 
          supplies - cell phones, extra batteries, maps, portable GPS units, 
          changes of clothes, cans of gasoline, etc. As they load up the 
          vehicles 
          -
          
          
          JASPER
          I've had to fight our kind before. 
          We're hard to kill.
          
          
          EDWARD
          But not impossible. We'll tear him up 
          
          
          EMMETT
          
          
          (with bloodlust)
          We'll rip him apart with our hands, 
          then burn the pieces 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          I don't relish killing another creature. 
          Even a sadistic one like James.
          
          
          ROSALIE
          If he doesn't get to one of us 
          first.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (horrified)
          This is insane. You can't put yourselves 
          in danger like this - for me.
          
          
          ROSALIE
          Too late.
          
          
          Edward shoots Rosalie a look, but he grabs two sets of keys 
          off a hook, throwing one set, lightning fast, to Dr. Cullen 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'll run Bella south, while you lead 
          the tracker away 
          -
          
          
          
          84.
          DR. CULLEN
          No, Edward -- the tracker thinks 
          you won't leave Bella. He'll 
          follow you.
          
          
          ALICE
          I'll go with Bella. Jasper and 
          I 
          will drive her south.
          
          
          (facing him)
          I'll keep her safe, Edward.
          
          
          Edward agonizes. Frustrated. Alice steps forward.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (studies her, torn)
          Can you keep your thoughts to yourself?
          
          
          She nods. An unspoken agreement. Edward finally surrenders 
          his keys to Alice. Then he opens one of Bella's suitcases,
          pulling out clothes, tossing them to 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          Esme, Rosalie, put these on so the 
          tracker will pick up Bella's scent. 
          
          
          ROSALIE
          
          
          (dropping the clothes)
          Why should I? What is she to me? Just 
          a danger you've inflicted on us 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          
          
          (spinning on her)
          Rosalie. Bella is with Edward. She's 
          a part of this family now. And we 
          protect our family. 
          
          
          She glowers, but picks up the clothes. Dr. Cullen hits the door 
          opener and the massive METAL DOORS roll open. Dr. Cullen 
          squeezes Edward's shoulder before he and Esme climb into the
          SUV. Everyone finishes loading up, climbing in cars 
          -
          
          
          Amid this, Edward and Bella take a moment together.
          
          
          BELLA
          If any of you get hurt because of me 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          We won't, there are five of us, two of 
          them. When it's done, I'll come get you. 
          
          
          He pulls her closer, looking into her eyes. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You're my life now.
          
          
          
          85.
          They drink each other in, possibly for the last time... as the SUV 
          PEELS out, WIPING THE FRAME 
          -
          
          
          107 EXT. HIGHWAY, PACIFIC NORTHWEST - DAWN 107
          
          
          The sun begins to rise on the empty road as a sleek, black 
          MERCEDES SEDAN with dark tinted windows BLASTS through frame 
          -
          
          
          108 INT. MERCEDES - SAME 108
          
          
          Jasper drives, Alice in the passenger seat. Bella is in the 
          back, her eyes red from crying. She talks on her cell phone 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Mom, it's me again. You must have 
          
          
          let your phone die. Anyway, I'm 
          
          
          not in Forks anymore but I'm okay. 
          
          
          I'll explain when you call.
          
          
          She hangs up, then faces back out the window, watching the green, 
          misty Olympic Peninsula speed past. Off Bella's face -
          
          A SERIES OF DISSOLVES THROUGHOUT THE DAY, THEN THE NIGHT 
          
          
          -- show us the landscape as it changes from dark green 
          forests to stretches of grassy hillsides, to drier, browner 
          surroundings, until night falls and headlights lights flash 
          by us. Finally, we land in..
          .
          
          
          109 OMITTED 109
          
          
          110 EXT. FOREST, OLYMPIC PENINSULA - DAY 110
          
          
          TREES BLOW PAST US at a blinding speed as we track Edward, 
          Rosalie, and Emmett who dart in and out of frame, blasting through 
          the misty woods, Edward, the fastest, in the lead.
          
          
          Edward stops, trying to read his enemy's thoughts. Rosalie 
          tears a tiny swatch of her shirt, leaves it on a FLOWERING 
          MAPLE TREE. And then they're gone.
          
          
          111 OMITTED 111
          
          
          112 EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE WOODS - DAY 112
          
          
          Esme and Dr. Cullen crouch atop a hill, looking down at the 
          river. In the distance, below, they SEE 
          -
          
          
          THEIR POV - ON THE LAKE - VICTORIA jogs into view. She then looks 
          in their direction. Once Dr. Cullen and Esme are assured she has 
          their scent, they continue over the hill's crest. 
          
          
          113 OMITTED 113
          
          
          114 EXT. FOREST, OLYMPIC PENINSULA - DAY 114
          
          
          
          86.
          James blasts past the FLOWERING MAPLE -- then stops, backtracks to 
          the tree, finds the tiny swatch of fabric. He starts off again..
          . 
          but stops, smells the fabric. Something's not right. He runs
          back in the opposite direction... Uh oh..
          .
          
          
          SMASH TO:
          
          
          115 INT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 115
          
          
          ON BELLA'S FACE: her eyes pop open. She's lying atop a bed, 
          fully clothed. She rises, reorienting.
          
          
          116 INT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - LIVING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 116
          
          
          The blinds are pulled. Alice and Jasper stare blankly at 
          a 
          
          
          T.V. set. Several plates of food crowd a table. Alice looks 
          up as Bella enters, looking at her cell phone. 
          BELLA
          I wish he'd call.
          
          
          ALICE
          You should eat.
          
          
          But Bella ignores the food. She sits heavily.
          
          
          BELLA
          They could get hurt. It's not 
          worth it.
          
          
          JASPER
          (insistent)
          Yes. It is. 
          
          
          She's taken aback. It's the first time he's engaged with her.
          
          
          JASPER
          Edward's changed since he found 
          you. And none of us want to look 
          into his eyes for the next hundred 
          years if he loses you. 
          
          
          (he looks forward again)
          It's worth it.
          
          
          Suddenly, Alice REELS. Jasper goes to her, Bella follows.
          
          
          JASPER
          What do you see?
          
          
          ALICE
          (with deep worry)
          The tracker. He just changed course..
          .
          
          
          Jasper quickly sets a pad of paper and pencil in front of her. 
          
          
          
          87.
          JASPER
          Where will it take him, Alice?
          
          
          PUSH IN ON ALICE'S FACE as we-
          
          
          FLASH POP TO - JAMES
          
          
          A disorienting vision of him standing in a room full of..
          .
          
          
          ALICE
          Mirrors. It's a room of mirrors.
          
          
          Alice begins to draw at HYPER SPEED, closing her eyes, trying 
          to see it clearly.
          
          
          BELLA
          How do the visions work? Edward 
          said they weren't always certain. 
          
          
          JASPER
          She sees the course people are on, 
          while they're on it. If they change 
          their minds, the visions change. 
          
          
          Bella looks over Alice's shoulder to see the drawing.
          
          
          BELLA
          So the course James is on now will 
          lead him to... a ballet studio?
          
          
          ALICE
          (looks up at her)
          You've been here?
          
          
          BELLA
          No. I don't know. I used to take 
          ballet lessons as a kid. The 
          school had an arch like that.
          
          
          JASPER
          Was your school here in Phoenix? 
          
          
          BELLA
          Yeah, around the corner from my house. 
          But I haven't been there in ten years.
          
          
          JASPER
          Do you have any reason to go now?
          
          
          BELLA
          No. Hell, no. I hated the place.
          
          
          Alice and Jasper share a look, trying to figure this out. 
          Suddenly, Bella JUMPS as her cell phone RINGS. She picks it 
          up. Sees the caller I.D. and exhales relief. She answers..
          .
          
          
          
          88.
          BELLA
          Edward. Are you alright?
          
          
          INTERCUT WITH:
          
          
          117 INT. JEEP/EXT. WASHINGTON ROAD - DAY 117
          
          
          Dr. Cullen drives the Jeep, fast, Emmett in the back, Edward in 
          the passenger seat on his cell phone. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'm coming to get you. 
          (hates having to say 
          
          
          this)
          We lost the tracker. The woman is 
          still in the area. Rosalie and 
          Esme are protecting your father.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          (sinking)
          This is my fault. You warned me, 
          but I didn't think. I just..
          .
          
          
          EDWARD
          Bella, we're in too deep. We can't 
          change how we feel..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          No... we can't.
          (then)
          When will you get here?
          
          
          EDWARD
          In a couple hours. Then you and 
          I 
          will go somewhere. Together. The 
          others will keep hunting.
          
          
          (then, determined)
          Bella, I swear to you, I'll do whatever 
          it takes to make you safe again. 
          
          
          Off Bella, her eyes welling..
          .
          
          
          118 EXT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - DAY 118
          
          
          SEE Alice in the lobby, settling the bill. Jasper loads up 
          the car out front. 
          
          
          119 INT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - BEDROOM - DAY 119
          
          
          Bella gathers her things, then her phone RINGS again. 
          
          
          INSERT CALLER I.D. -It reads ‚ÄúHOME.‚Äù Bella answers -
          
          BELLA
          Mom, I'm so glad you got my -
          -
          
          
          
          89.
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          (panicked)
          Bella? Bella? Where are you? 
          
          
          BELLA
          Calm down, Mom. Everything is fine, 
          okay? I'll explain every 
          -
          
          
          HEAR RUSTLING on the line, as if Rene dropped the phone.
          
          
          BELLA
          ... Mom? Are you there?
          
          
          Then Bella HEARS a voice that sends a chill down her spine 
          -
          
          
          JAMES (O.S.
          )
          Nice house you have here. Not the 
          best on the block, but comfortable. 
          
          
          INTERCUT WITH:
          
          
          120 INT. RENE'S HOUSE, PHOENIX - DAY 120
          
          
          VERY CLOSE ON JAMES, his sinister eyes and vicious smile.
          
          
          JAMES
          I was prepared to wait for you. 
          But then Mom came home after she 
          received a very worried call from 
          your Dad. It all worked out quite 
          well.
          
          
          Bella's eyes are wild with fear.
          
          
          JAMES
          I must say, Forks High School doesn't 
          protect its students' privacy very 
          well. It was just too easy for 
          Victoria to find your previous address. 
          
          
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          Bella? Bella?..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          Leave my mother out of this.
          
          
          JAMES
          You're protective of her. That's 
          nice. You can still save her. But 
          you'll need to get away from your 
          friends. Can you do that? 
          
          
          BELLA
          I... don't think so.
          
          
          
          90.
          JAMES
          If your mother's life depends on it? 
          
          
          Bella is terrified, but there's no choice here. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Where should I meet you?
          
          
          James grins as he fingers a PHOTO of Bella that's attached to
          the refrigerator with a magnet. It's the same photo Charlie
          has of her, age 7, in a tutu, sitting on the floor. 
          
          
          JAMES
          The old ballet studio around the 
          corner. And I'll know if you bring 
          anyone along. Poor mommy would pay 
          the price for that mistake.
          
          
          (sniffs the air)
          She smells like you. Delicious.
          
          
          STAY ON BELLA as she hangs up, panicked. She starts flinging 
          open drawers, searching for a weapon - a pen, a sewing kit. 
          Useless. Then she remembers..
          .
          
          
          Her purse. She dumps out the contents, and FINDS the pepper 
          spray Charlie gave her. She clings to it, her only protection 
          now.
          
          
          121 OMITTED 121
          
          
          122 OMITTED 122
          
          
          123 OMITTED 123
          
          
          124 OMITTED 124
          
          
          125 OMITTED 125
          
          
          126 OMITTED 126
          
          
          127 INT./EXT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - TWILIGHT - DRIVING 127
          
          
          Bella walks through the lobby, scanning for Jasper and Alice. 
          She spots them outside under the porte cacher, loading the 
          Mercedes, deep in a heated discussion. She slips out the 
          opposite door, rushes toward a Taxi and jumps in, closes the 
          door. The DRIVER is an elderly woman with a hacking COUGH. 
          
          
          BELLA
          (taking a breath for 
          courage)
          8th and Palo Verde, please.
          
          
          The taxi pulls out. Bella watches the hotel disappear. Off 
          her FACE IN THE REAR WINDOW..
          .
          
          
          
          91.
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          
          
          I've never given much thought to 
          
          
          how I would die..
          .
          
          
          128 EXT. SCOTTSDALE HOTEL - NIGHT - BELLA'S POV 128
          
          
          Once again, we see the polished malls, the manicured cactus 
          gardens. All empty for the night. 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          
          
          But dying in the place of someone 
          I 
          
          
          love seems like a good way to go..
          . 
          
          
          129 OMITTED 129
          
          
          130 OMITTED 130
          
          
          131 EXT. MIMI'S SCHOOL OF DANCE - NIGHT 131
          
          
          Bella climbs out of the taxi. It pulls away, leaving her on the 
          curb facing the deserted building. Bella twirls her mother's
          ring around her finger, then reaches for the pepper spray.
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          
          
          I can't bring myself to regret the 
          
          
          decisions that brought me face to 
          
          
          face with death... they also 
          
          
          brought me to Edward.
          
          
          She slips the pepper spray into her jeans pocket. She wraps 
          her purse strap around her wrist. She takes a breath, 
          approaches the school. Peers in the windows. The blinds are 
          drawn. But from inside, we HEAR a faint sound..
          .
          
          
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          Bella? Bella? 
          
          
          It's time. Bella goes to the front door. It's unlocked.
          
          
          132 OMITTED 132
          
          
          133 INT. MIMI'S SCHOOL OF DANCE - STUDIO - NIGHT 133
          
          
          Bella cautiously enters this grand, empty room of mirrors. 
          A 
          ballet bar wraps around the walls -
          -
          
          
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          Bella, where are you? 
          
          
          Bella whirls, trying to find its source. She follows the sound to 
          a cleaning supply CLOSET. She throws open the door to FIND 
          -
          
          
          A T.V. - ON SCREEN A VIDEO PLAYS - Bella, age 7, hides in the 
          very closet the T.V. is in now. Little Bella looks up at us. 
          
          
          
          92.
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          Don't you want to dance, baby? 
          
          
          Little Bella shakes her head stubbornly. The frame jiggles 
          as Rene hands someone the camera. Rene, ten years younger, 
          appears on screen and kneels next to Bella.
          
          
          BELLA
          Everyone makes fun of me.
          
          
          RENE
          But you're a wonderful dancer.
          
          
          BELLA
          Mom, I suck. 
          
          
          LAUGHTER behind Bella. She spins, trying to locate James in 
          the mirrors. 
          
          
          JAMES
          That's my favorite part. Stubborn 
          child, weren't you?
          
          
          Bella's face flushes with rage... and relief. 
          
          
          BELLA
          She's not here.
          
          
          JAMES
          Sorry. But you really made it too easy.
          
          
          Visible in the mirror, he sighs, disappointed. Then he steps 
          up next to her and points a VIDEO CAMERA at Bella. 
          
          
          JAMES
          So to make things more entertaining, 
          I'm going to make a little film of our 
          time together. Borrowed this from 
          your house. Hope you don't mind. 
          
          
          (turns it on)
          And... action!
          
          
          Bella FLINGS her purse at him, and runs for the door.
          
          
          JAMES
          Excellent! An escape attempt.
          
          
          Suddenly, he's right behind her. She freezes. 
          
          
          JAMES
          It'll break Edward's little heart.
          
          
          He smells her hair. Touches her throat. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Edward has nothing to do with this.
          
          
          
          93.
          JAMES
          He will. His rage will make for 
          more interesting sport than his 
          feeble attempt to protect you.
          
          
          He's having too much fun to notice --the peppers spray in
          her hand. She spins around and sprays him. 
          
          
          Then she runs, as James REELS back briefly. But he leaps 
          over her and lands RIGHT IN FRONT OF HER. 
          
          
          Amused, he flings her across the floor like a bowling ball. 
          She SMASHES hard into a mirrored column. James captures it 
          on film. 
          
          
          JAMES
          Beautiful! Very visually dynamic. 
          I chose my stage well.
          
          
          He advances toward her.
          
          
          JAMES
          Still stubborn, aren't you? Is that 
          what makes you special? Because 
          frankly, I don't see it. 
          
          
          He inhales as if he can taste her already 
          -
          
          
          JAMES
          Too bad he didn't have the strength 
          to turn you. Instead, he kept you 
          this fragile little human. It's 
          cruel, really. 
          
          
          James flips on the camera, but the lens is coated with pepper 
          spray. He tries to wipe it off.
          
          
          JAMES
          Well done! You've succeeded in 
          annoying me.
          
          
          He STOMPS on her shin! HEAR her tibia SNAP! Bella SCREAMS in 
          agony. 
          
          
          JAMES
          Tell Edward how much it hurts. 
          
          
          Abruptly, the camera is in her face 
          -
          
          
          JAMES
          Tell him to avenge you.
          
          
          BELLA
          No! Edward, don't..
          . 
          
          
          
          94.
          James inhales as her blood pools. He leans in, hungry. Bella, 
          half-conscious, watches him turn the camera on his own face 
          -
          
          
          VIDEO CAMERA'S POV - ECU ON JAMES' FACE
          
          
          JAMES
          Cut! The end.
          
          
          Suddenly -- JAMES IS KNOCKED OUT OF FRAME! 
          
          
          He rises to find himself face to face with Edward. James 
          CHARGES Edward, forcing him up against a column. 
          
          
          JAMES
          You're alone... because you're 
          faster than the others. But not 
          stronger.
          
          
          James SMASHES Edward's face into the mirror until it cracks.
          
          
          EDWARD
          I'm strong enough to kill you.
          
          
          Edward FLINGS James backwards -- SMASHING through 
          a 
          freestanding mirror -- into the doorway. He scoops Bella up 
          and leaps toward the balcony exit door -- when suddenly he 
          and Bella are JERKED downward.
          
          
          James YANKS Edward violently onto the floor -- KNOCKING Bella 
          out of his arms -- as James FLINGS Edward up into the top 
          window -- EMBEDDING him in the casement and bricks. 
          
          
          James crouches beside Bella. He grabs her HAND 
          -
          
          
          Looking directly at Edward with a sinister grin -- he SINKS 
          HIS TEETH into Bella's hand! She SCREAMS in agony. 
          
          
          Edward's rage ERUPTS -- he climbs out of the window casement 
          and SUICIDE-DIVE-BOMBS James, savagely PLOWING him through 
          the floorboards.
          
          
          ON BELLA -- as the venom travels through her veins. 
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - dark figures twist and fight, in and out of 
          focus. 
          
          
          Her eyes suddenly POP OPEN to see the EXPLOSIVE RAW REALITY 
          of James KICKING Edward, delivering death blows when -
          -
          
          
          Suddenly Edward's hand SHOOTS UP and GRABS James' ankle.
          Edward ROARS up to his feet and SWINGS James around like 
          a 
          baseball bat, SMASHING him into mirror after mirror. 
          
          
          James is battered, beaten. Bella moans -- and the sound of 
          her pain slices through Edward. In an animalistic fury, 
          Edward BITES OFF a piece of James' flesh ..
          .
          
          
          
          95.
          WHIP PAN from Bella's horrified face to DR. CULLEN --now
          standing beside Edward, placing a hand on his son's shoulder.
          
          
          Edward turns to see his father -- and EMMETT, JASPER, and 
          ALICE, dropping down from the balcony.
          
          
          Edward's expression changes --he realizes he's gone too far.
          He backs off as his siblings crouch into attack mode and 
          LUNGE at James like a pack of animals.
          
          
          Dr. Cullen rushes to the injured Bella who SCREAMS again in 
          pain. Edward dashes toward her -
          -
          
          
          BELLA'S POV -ON THE THREE CULLEN SIBLINGS, going in and out
          of focus... it almost looks like a tribal dance as they rip 
          out the floorboards and build a fire ... it's like a funeral
          pyre as they rip James apart, throwing limbs into the fire..
          . 
          
          
          BACK ON BELLA -- as Edward reaches her side. Dr. Cullen works 
          fast to assess her wounds, focusing on a massive bleed from her 
          leg. But clearly her hand hurts the most. She writhes in pain. 
          
          
          INTERCUT BELLA'S DISORIENTED POV WITH THE CHAOTIC REALITY:
          
          
          Dr. Cullen applies pressure to the gash on her thigh -
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Her femoral artery's been severed. 
          She's losing too much blood 
          -
          
          
          BELLA
          It's on fire! My hand!
          
          
          EDWARD
          Venom -
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          
          
           (working on Bella)
          
          
          You have to make a choice. Either 
          
          
          let the change happen 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          No!
          
          
          BELLA'S POV -ALICE appears behind Edward, fuzzy, indistinct.
          
          
          ALICE
          It's going to happen. I've seen it 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          It doesn't have to be that way.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Alice, find me a tourniquet. 
          A 
          rag, a shirt.
          
          
          
          96.
          Alice holds her nose and avoids the blood as she rips the 
          sleeve off her blouse and kneels to aid Dr. Cullen. 
          
          
          BELLA
          It's burning!
          
          
          EDWARD
          What's the other choice? You said 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          (to Alice)
          Tighter, above the knee 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          Carlisle.
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          You can try to suck the venom out. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          I -- won't be able to stop 
          -
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Find the will to stop. But choose, 
          she only has minutes left.
          
          
          Edward looks down at Bella, thrashing in pain. Finally, 
          Edward takes her hand. She tries to pull it away.
          
          
          EDWARD
          It's alright, Bella. I'll make it 
          go away. 
          
          
          He looks at her - then starts to suck the venom from her 
          hand. They never take their eyes off one another, the 
          connection palpable, intense..
          . 
          
          
          CLOSE ON BELLA'S EYES -wild with pain. But subsiding..
          .
          
          
          CLOSE ON EDWARD'S EYES -the frenzy has begun. He sucks
          harder. Hungrily. Anguished, he wants to stop but can't. 
          Dr. Cullen's voice sounds miles away..
          .
          
          
          DR. CULLEN
          Stop. Her blood is clean, you're 
          killing her.
          
          
          -- but the bloodlust is too strong. He is killing her. Bella 
          looks at him, forgivingly, as she begins to lose consciousness..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA'S POV -ON EDWARD -growing blurry... he disappears
          into the blinding light. It's as if she's underwater, like
          her dreams..
          . 
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.
          )
          Death is peaceful. Easy.
          
          
          
          97.
          Bella starts to float away... we're losing her..
          .
          Suddenly from the darkness, Edward reaches out a hand..
          .
          A brilliant light flares..
          .
          
          
          134 BELLA'S FACE APPEARS IN THE WHITENESS
          Eyes closed. But they slowly open. She squints at the light. 
          BELLA
          Life... is harder..
          . 
          An oxygen tube rests under her nose. She reaches for it, 
          confused. A hand stops her as her surroundings come into focus.
          RENE (O.S.
          )
          
          
          You're awake, baby! You're okay!!
          !
          INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
          Bella lies in a hospital bed. Bandaged, leg in a cast. In bad 
          
          
          shape. Rene hovers over her, tears in her eyes. On the dresser, 

          SEE get well cards and a PHOTO MONTAGE of her friends from Forks.
          BELLA
          Edward? Where's -
          RENE
          He's asleep.
          She nods across the room to a chair in which Edward ‚Äúsleeps.
          ‚Äù
          
          
          RENE
          He never leaves. And your dad's 
          down in the cafeteria. 
          
          
          BELLA
          What... happened?
          
          
          RENE
          Baby, you fell down two flights of 
          stairs and through a window. 
          
          
          Bella is drawing a blank, confused. Rene jogs her memory 
          -
          RENE
          Edward came here to convince you to 
          come back to Forks. His father 
          brought him down. You went to their 
          hotel but you tripped on the stairs. 
          A moment... then Bella realizes it's a cover story. She nods.
          BELLA
          Sounds like me.
          
          
          
          98.
          Rene's cell phone BEEPS. She opens it. Reads a text, starts
          typing in a reply.
          
          
          RENE
          It's Phil. He's worried about you.
          
          
          BELLA
          Mom, you're... texting.
          
          
          RENE
          
          
           (smiling)
          I told him to stay in Florida. The 
          Suns signed him! 
          
          
          BELLA
          That's great mom.
          
          
          RENE
          Jacksonville is always sunny and 
          you'll have your own bathroom..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          Mom, wait. I want to live in 
          Forks. I have Dad..
          . 
          
          
          (re: the get well cards)
          ... and friends..
          .
          
          
          RENE
          (re: Edward)
          And he's there. 
          
          
          Bella shrugs, conceding the truth.
          
          
          RENE
          Charlie doesn't like him. Blames 
          him for your leaving. 
          
          
          BELLA
          What do you think?
          
          
          RENE
          
          
          (lowering her voice)
          I think that boy is in love with 
          you.
          
          
          Bella smiles. Rene grins. Bella glances at Edward.
          
          
          BELLA
          Um, Mom, would you mind getting Dad? 
          I 
          want to talk to him. Apologize.
          
          
          RENE
          I'm sure he doesn't care about 
          that, Baby. But I‚Äòll go get him.
          
          
          
          99.
          Rene kisses Bella's forehead. Exits. Bella watches her go.
          The door shutting behind her. Bella turns back to find 
          Edward standing next to her with deep concern. Her eyes 
          well. He kisses her forehead soothingly. 
          
          
          BELLA
          Is James - did you -- 
          ?
          
          
          EDWARD
          We took care of him. And the 
          woman, Victoria, she ran off.
          
          
          She closes her eyes with relief, then looks at him. 
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm alive because of you.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (darkens)
          You're in here because of me. 
          
          
          Her wounds cause him pain. He strokes her face.
          
          
          EDWARD
          The worst of it... was thinking 
          I 
          couldn't stop -
          
          BELLA
          But you did. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Bella, you should go to Jacksonville. 
          Where I can't hurt you anymore..
          .
          
          
          BELLA
          What? No! I want to be with you! 
          I 
          don't want 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (sitting next to her)
          Sssh. It's alright. I'm not going 
          anywhere. I'm right here..
          .
          
          
          He wraps an arm around her. As she curls up in his arms..
          . 
          
          
          DISSOLVE TO:
          
          
          135 EXT. FORKS, WASHINGTON - LATE AFTERNOON 135
          
          
          An AERIAL SWEEP over the lush green forests. We're back in
          the misty, damp beauty of the Pacific Northwest..
          .
          
          
          
          100.
          136 EXT. CHARLIE'S HOUSE - BEAUTIFUL LATE AFTERNOON 136
          
          
          At a picnic table, Charlie cleans a fish with a big knife. 
          Edward waits awkwardly near his Volvo, dressed in an elegant 
          suit. But even calm Edward is unnerved by Charlie's glare. The
          front door opens and they look up to see 
          -
          
          
          BELLA --framed in the doorway in a stunning long dress. Edward 
          is enchanted. Bella descends the steps with difficulty, due to 
          her LEG CAST. Charlie edges out Edward to help her down. 
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Alice lent me the dress. It was the 
          
          
          only thing that would fit over my 
          
          
          cast. Is it too... 
          ?
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          You're perfect... I'll take good 
          
          
          care of her, Chief. 
          
          
          CHARLIE
          Heard that before. 
          
          
          Edward moves to open the car door. Charlie holds Bella back.
          
          
          CHARLIE 
          (sotto)
          I put new pepper spray in your bag.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          Dad.
          
          
          CHARLIE
          ... and... you look beautiful.
          
          
          Father and daughter share a smile..
          .
          
          
          137 EXT./INT. MANSION, VIEW POINT INN - TWILIGHT 137
          
          
          Edward's Volvo pulls up to this lovely inn. He helps Bella
          out of the car, and begins to guide her through the dining 
          room. Mr. Molina and other teachers are there. We may 
          notice the back of a Redhead, mingling with the chaperones.
          
          
          BELLA
          
          
          I can't believe you're making me do 
          
          
          this.
          
          
          He just grins. Edward guides her around a corner to..
          .
          
          
          138 EXT. MANSION BACKYARD (CONTINUOUS) - TWILIGHT 138
          
          
          THE PROM - Monte Carlo style. Gaming tables and roulette 
          wheels. Guys in tuxes and girls in gowns gamble for prizes, 
          dance and socialize. 
          
          
          
          101.
          BELLA
          You really are trying to kill me.
          
          
          EDWARD
          Prom is an important rite of 
          passage. I don't want you to miss 
          anything. 
          
          
          She can't be mad at him, just shakes her head affectionately.
          They continue into the prom. Several heads turn. Bella sees 
          -
          
          
          THE DANCE FLOOR, where a gap has formed. In the middle, two 
          couples whirl gracefully. It's Alice and Jasper, Rosalie and 
          Emmett, looking absolutely stunning. 
          
          
          Rosalie glances over; indifference has replaced fury. But 
          Alice waves brightly. Bella returns it with a smile as we 
          hear a crossfade into the next track-
          
          
          BELLA'S POV -- THE DJ BOOTH 
          -
          
          
          It's Eric at the turntables, making the room bounce! Next to
          him, Angela wears the headphones, flipping through a stack of 
          vinyl. They nod at Bella -- she shoots them a smile when -
          -
          
          
          A FLASHBULB gets her attention 
          -
          
          
          BELLA'S POV - PHOTOGRAPHER'S STATION
          
          
          Mike and Jessica stand in front of an Aston Martin cut-out. 
          Bella catches their eye -- Mike does his best James Bond 
          impersonation. Jessica poses like Pussy Galore.
          
          
          Edward smirks, then turns to Bella 
          -
          
          
          EDWARD
          Shall we? 
          
          
          BELLA
          (laughs, then realizes)
          You're serious.
          
          
          He doesn't wait for an answer, more or less CARRIES her to
          the DANCE FLOOR -- then places her feet atop his own... and 
          starts to move. She actually begins to enjoy it.
          
          
          EDWARD
          See? You're dancing.
          
          
          BELLA
          At prom.
          
          
          As they dance, she feels his grace, his strength. Becomes 
          thoughtful. Finally, she looks at him.
          
          
          
          102.
          BELLA
          Edward... why did you save me?
          (off his questioning look)
          If you'd let the venom spread, 
          I could've been like you by now.
          
          
          EDWARD
          
          
          (stops, horrified)
          You don't know what you're saying. 
          You don't want this.
          
          
          BELLA
          I want you. Always.
          
          
          EDWARD
          (angry)
          I won't end your life for you. 
          
          
          He keeps dancing, slowly, hoping his was the last word.
          
          
          BELLA
          I'm dying anyway. Every minute, 
          I get closer, older 
          
          EDWARD
          That's how it's supposed to happen. 
          
          BELLA
          Not the way Alice saw it. 
          (off his sharp look)
          I heard her. She saw me like you. 
          
          EDWARD
          Her visions change, Bella. 
          
          BELLA
          Based on what someone decides. And 
          I've decided.
          
          
          He looks at her, angry. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          Is that what you dream about? 
          Becoming a monster? 
          
          
          BELLA
          I dream about being with you forever. 
          
          
          EDWARD
          You really want this?
          
          
          BELLA
          Yes.
          
          
          He lowers his lips to her neck. One bite is all it would take. 
          
          
          
          103.
          EDWARD
          You're ready right now?
          
          
          BELLA
          Yes.
          
          
          His lips hover over her skin, a long beat... then he presses his 
          lips to her throat. Not a bite. A kiss. He looks at her.
          
          
          EDWARD
          You're going to have a long and 
          happy life with me. Isn't that 
          enough?
          
          
          She looks at him... and finally smiles.
          
          
          BELLA
          For now.
          
          
          They WHIRL around, gliding on his grace, never looking away from 
          one another, as we CRANE UP on them, in each other's arms..
          .
          
          
          BELLA (V.O.)
          No one will surrender tonight. But 
          I won't give in. I know what I want.
          
          
          CONTINUE UP AND BACK on the dance floor. We realize ..
          
          ... someone's watching it, looking down from the window of 
          a second floor hotel room in the Inn. The MUSIC wafting up in 
          echoes. PULL BACK to REVEAL..
          
          VICTORIA, turning from the window. She's stylishly dressed
          now, but seething -- a low, sinister SNARL in the back of her 
          throat. PUSH IN FAST ON HER FACE, AND INTO HER BURGUNDY EYES 
          filled with vengeance as we 
          -
          
          
          SMASH TO BLACK. 

A country road. A tree.


Evening.




Estragon, sitting on a low mound, is trying to take off his boot. He pulls at it with both hands, panting. #
 
                              Image from timil.com
He gives up, exhausted, rests, tries again.
As before.
Enter Vladimir.
ESTRAGON:
(giving up again). Nothing to be done.
VLADIMIR:
(advancing with short, stiff strides, legs wide apart). I'm beginning to come round to that opinion. All my life I've tried to put it from me, saying Vladimir, be reasonable, you haven't yet tried everything. And I resumed the struggle. (He broods, musing on the struggle. Turning to Estragon.) So there you are again.
ESTRAGON:
Am I?
VLADIMIR:
I'm glad to see you back. I thought you were gone forever.
ESTRAGON:
Me too.
VLADIMIR:
Together again at last! We'll have to celebrate this. But how? (He reflects.) Get up till I embrace you.
ESTRAGON:
(irritably). Not now, not now.
VLADIMIR:
(hurt, coldly). May one inquire where His Highness spent the night?
ESTRAGON:
In a ditch.
VLADIMIR:
(admiringly). A ditch! Where?
ESTRAGON:
(without gesture). Over there.
VLADIMIR:
And they didn't beat you?
ESTRAGON:
Beat me? Certainly they beat me.
VLADIMIR:
The same lot as usual?
ESTRAGON:
The same? I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
When I think of it . . . all these years . . . but for me . . . where would you be . . . (Decisively.) You'd be nothing more than a little heap of bones at the present minute, no doubt about it.
ESTRAGON:
And what of it?
VLADIMIR:
(gloomily). It's too much for one man. (Pause. Cheerfully.) On the other hand what's the good of losing heart now, that's what I say. We should have thought of it a million years ago, in the nineties.
ESTRAGON:
Ah stop blathering and help me off with this bloody thing.
VLADIMIR:
Hand in hand from the top of the Eiffel Tower, among the first. We were respectable in those days. Now it's too late. They wouldn't even let us up. (Estragon tears at his boot.) What are you doing?
ESTRAGON:
Taking off my boot. Did that never happen to you?
VLADIMIR:
Boots must be taken off every day, I'm tired telling you that. Why don't you listen to me?
ESTRAGON:
(feebly). Help me!
VLADIMIR:
It hurts?
ESTRAGON:
(angrily). Hurts! He wants to know if it hurts!
VLADIMIR:
(angrily). No one ever suffers but you. I don't count. I'd like to hear what you'd say if you had what I have.
ESTRAGON:
It hurts?
VLADIMIR:
(angrily). Hurts! He wants to know if it hurts!
ESTRAGON:
(pointing). You might button it all the same.
VLADIMIR:
(stooping). True. (He buttons his fly.) Never neglect the little things of life.
ESTRAGON:
What do you expect, you always wait till the last moment.
VLADIMIR:
(musingly). The last moment . . . (He meditates.) Hope deferred maketh the something sick, who said that?
ESTRAGON:
Why don't you help me?
VLADIMIR:
Sometimes I feel it coming all the same. Then I go all queer. (He takes off his hat, peers inside it, feels about inside it, shakes it, puts it on again.) How shall I say? Relieved and at the same time . . . (he searches for the word) . . . appalled. (With emphasis.) AP-PALLED. (He takes off his hat again, peers inside it.) Funny. (He knocks on the crown as though to dislodge a foreign body, peers into it again, puts it on again.) Nothing to be done. (Estragon with a supreme effort succeeds in pulling off his boot. He peers inside it, feels about inside it, turns it upside down, shakes it, looks on the ground to see if anything has fallen out, finds nothing, feels inside it again, staring sightlessly before him.) Well?
ESTRAGON:
Nothing.
VLADIMIR:
Show me.
ESTRAGON:
There's nothing to show.
VLADIMIR:
Try and put it on again.
ESTRAGON:
(examining his foot). I'll air it for a bit.
VLADIMIR:
There's man all over for you, blaming on his boots the faults of his feet. (He takes off his hat again, peers inside it, feels about inside it, knocks on the crown, blows into it, puts it on again.) This is getting alarming. (Silence. Vladimir deep in thought, Estragon pulling at his toes.) One of the thieves was saved. (Pause.) It's a reasonable percentage. (Pause.) Gogo.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
Suppose we repented.
ESTRAGON:
Repented what?
VLADIMIR:
Oh . . . (He reflects.) We wouldn't have to go into the details.
ESTRAGON:
Our being born?
Vladimir breaks into a hearty laugh which he immediately stifles, his hand pressed to his pubis, his face contorted.
VLADIMIR:
One daren't even laugh any more.
ESTRAGON:
Dreadful privation.
VLADIMIR:
Merely smile. (He smiles suddenly from ear to ear, keeps smiling, ceases as suddenly.) It's not the same thing. Nothing to be done. (Pause.) Gogo.
ESTRAGON:
(irritably). What is it?
VLADIMIR:
Did you ever read the Bible?
ESTRAGON:
The Bible . . . (He reflects.) I must have taken a look at it.
VLADIMIR:
Do you remember the Gospels?
ESTRAGON:
I remember the maps of the Holy Land. Coloured they were. Very pretty. The Dead Sea was pale blue. The very look of it made me thirsty. That's where we'll go, I used to say, that's where we'll go for our honeymoon. We'll swim. We'll be happy.
VLADIMIR:
You should have been a poet.
ESTRAGON:
I was. (Gesture towards his rags.) Isn't that obvious?
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Where was I . . . How's your foot?
ESTRAGON:
Swelling visibly.
VLADIMIR:
Ah yes, the two thieves. Do you remember the story?
ESTRAGON:
No.
VLADIMIR:
Shall I tell it to you?
ESTRAGON:
No.
VLADIMIR:
It'll pass the time. (Pause.) Two thieves, crucified at the same time as our Saviour. One‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
Our what?
VLADIMIR:
Our Saviour. Two thieves. One is supposed to have been saved and the other . . . (he searches for the contrary of saved) . . . damned.
ESTRAGON:
Saved from what?
VLADIMIR:
Hell.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
He does not move.
VLADIMIR:
And yet . . . (pause) . . . how is it ‚Äìthis is not boring you I hope‚Äì how is it that of the four Evangelists only one speaks of a thief being saved. The four of them were there ‚Äìor thereabouts‚Äì and only one speaks of a thief being saved. (Pause.) Come on, Gogo, return the ball, can't you, once in a way?
ESTRAGON:
(with exaggerated enthusiasm). I find this really most extraordinarily interesting.
VLADIMIR:
One out of four. Of the other three, two don't mention any thieves at all and the third says that both of them abused him.
ESTRAGON:
Who?
VLADIMIR:
What?
ESTRAGON:
What's all this about? Abused who?
VLADIMIR:
The Saviour.
ESTRAGON:
Why?
VLADIMIR:
Because he wouldn't save them.
ESTRAGON:
From hell?
VLADIMIR:
Imbecile! From death.
ESTRAGON:
I thought you said hell.
VLADIMIR:
From death, from death.
ESTRAGON:
Well what of it?
VLADIMIR:
Then the two of them must have been damned.
ESTRAGON:
And why not?
VLADIMIR:
But one of the four says that one of the two was saved.
ESTRAGON:
Well? They don't agree and that's all there is to it.
VLADIMIR:
But all four were there. And only one speaks of a thief being saved. Why believe him rather than the others?
ESTRAGON:
Who believes him?
VLADIMIR:
Everybody. It's the only version they know.
ESTRAGON:
People are bloody ignorant apes.
He rises painfully, goes limping to extreme left, halts, gazes into distance off with his hand screening his eyes, turns, goes to extreme right, gazes into distance. Vladimir watches him, then goes and picks up the boot, peers into it, drops it hastily.
VLADIMIR:
Pah!
He spits. Estragon moves to center, halts with his back to auditorium.
ESTRAGON:
Charming spot. (He turns, advances to front, halts facing auditorium.) Inspiring prospects. (He turns to Vladimir.) Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
(despairingly). Ah! (Pause.) You're sure it was here?
VLADIMIR:
What?
ESTRAGON:
That we were to wait.
VLADIMIR:
He said by the tree. (They look at the tree.) Do you see any others?
ESTRAGON:
What is it?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know. A willow.
ESTRAGON:
Where are the leaves?
VLADIMIR:

  It must be dead.


ESTRAGON:
No more weeping.
VLADIMIR:
Or perhaps it's not the season.
ESTRAGON:
Looks to me more like a bush.
VLADIMIR:
A shrub.
ESTRAGON:
A bush.
VLADIMIR:
A‚Äî. What are you insinuating? That we've come to the wrong place?
ESTRAGON:
He should be here.
VLADIMIR:
He didn't say for sure he'd come.
ESTRAGON:
And if he doesn't come?
VLADIMIR:
We'll come back tomorrow.
ESTRAGON:
And then the day after tomorrow.
VLADIMIR:
Possibly.
ESTRAGON:
And so on.
VLADIMIR:
The point is‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
Until he comes.
VLADIMIR:
You're merciless.
ESTRAGON:
We came here yesterday.
VLADIMIR:
Ah no, there you're mistaken.
ESTRAGON:
What did we do yesterday?
VLADIMIR:
What did we do yesterday?
ESTRAGON:
Yes.
VLADIMIR:
Why . . . (Angrily.) Nothing is certain when you're about.
ESTRAGON:
In my opinion we were here.
VLADIMIR:
(looking round). You recognize the place?
ESTRAGON:
I didn't say that.
VLADIMIR:
Well?
ESTRAGON:
That makes no difference.
VLADIMIR:
All the same . . . that tree . . . (turning towards auditorium) that bog . . .
ESTRAGON:
You're sure it was this evening?
VLADIMIR:
What?
ESTRAGON:
That we were to wait.
VLADIMIR:
He said Saturday. (Pause.) I think.
ESTRAGON:
You think.
VLADIMIR:
I must have made a note of it. (He fumbles in his pockets, bursting with miscellaneous rubbish.)
ESTRAGON:
(very insidious). But what Saturday? And is it Saturday? Is it not rather Sunday? (Pause.) Or Monday? (Pause.) Or Friday?
VLADIMIR:
(looking wildly about him, as though the date was inscribed in the landscape). It's not possible!
ESTRAGON:
Or Thursday?
VLADIMIR:
What'll we do?
ESTRAGON:
If he came yesterday and we weren't here you may be sure he won't come again today.
VLADIMIR:
But you say we were here yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
I may be mistaken. (Pause.) Let's stop talking for a minute, do you mind?
VLADIMIR:
(feebly). All right. (Estragon sits down on the mound. Vladimir paces agitatedly to and fro, halting from time to time to gaze into distance off. Estragon falls asleep. Vladimir halts finally before Estragon.) Gogo! . . . Gogo! . . . GOGO!
Estragon wakes with a start.
ESTRAGON:
(restored to the horror of his situation). I was asleep! (Despairingly.) Why will you never let me sleep?
VLADIMIR:
I felt lonely.
ESTRAGON:
I had a dream.
VLADIMIR:
Don't tell me!
ESTRAGON:
I dreamt that‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
DON'T TELL ME!
ESTRAGON:
(gesture toward the universe). This one is enough for you? (Silence.) It's not nice of you, Didi. Who am I to tell my private nightmares to if I can't tell them to you?
VLADIMIR:
Let them remain private. You know I can't bear that.
ESTRAGON:
(coldly.) There are times when I wonder if it wouldn't be better for us to part.
VLADIMIR:
You wouldn't go far.
ESTRAGON:
That would be too bad, really too bad. (Pause.) Wouldn't it, Didi, be really too bad? (Pause.) When you think of the beauty of the way. (Pause.) And the goodness of the wayfarers. (Pause. Wheedling.) Wouldn't it, Didi?
VLADIMIR:
Calm yourself.
ESTRAGON:
(voluptuously.) Calm . . . calm . . . The English say cawm. (Pause.) You know the story of the Englishman in the brothel?
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
ESTRAGON:
Tell it to me.
VLADIMIR:
Ah stop it!
ESTRAGON:
An Englishman having drunk a little more than usual proceeds to a brothel. The bawd asks him if he wants a fair one, a dark one or a red-haired one. Go on.
VLADIMIR:
STOP IT!
Exit Vladimir hurriedly. Estragon gets up and follows him as far as the limit of the stage. Gestures of Estragon like those of a spectator encouraging a pugilist. Enter Vladimir. He brushes past Estragon, crosses the stage with bowed head. Estragon takes a step towards him, halts.
ESTRAGON:
(gently.) You wanted to speak to me? (Silence. Estragon takes a step forward.) You had something to say to me? (Silence. Another step forward.) Didi . . .
VLADIMIR:
(without turning). I've nothing to say to you.
ESTRAGON:
(step forward). You're angry? (Silence. Step forward). Forgive me. (Silence. Step forward. Estragon lays his hand on Vladimir's shoulder.) Come, Didi. (Silence.) Give me your hand. (Vladimir half turns.) Embrace me! (Vladimir stiffens.) Don't be stubborn! (Vladimir softens. They embrace. #

Estragon recoils.) You stink of garlic!
VLADIMIR:
It's for the kidneys. (Silence. Estragon looks attentively at the tree.) What do we do now?
ESTRAGON:
Wait.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but while waiting.
ESTRAGON:
What about hanging ourselves?
VLADIMIR:
Hmm. It'd give us an erection.
ESTRAGON:
(highly excited). An erection!
VLADIMIR:
With all that follows. Where it falls mandrakes grow. That's why they shriek when you pull them up. Did you not know that?
ESTRAGON:
Let's hang ourselves immediately!
VLADIMIR:
From a bough? (They go towards the tree.) I wouldn't trust it.
ESTRAGON:
We can always try.
VLADIMIR:
Go ahead.
ESTRAGON:
After you.
VLADIMIR:
No no, you first.
ESTRAGON:
Why me?
VLADIMIR:
You're lighter than I am.
ESTRAGON:
Just so!
VLADIMIR:
I don't understand.
ESTRAGON:
Use your intelligence, can't you?
Vladimir uses his intelligence.
VLADIMIR:
(finally). I remain in the dark.
ESTRAGON:
This is how it is. (He reflects.) The bough . . . the bough . . . (Angrily.) Use your head, can't you?
VLADIMIR:
You're my only hope.
ESTRAGON:
(with effort). Gogo light‚Äîbough not break‚ÄîGogo dead. Didi heavy‚Äîbough break‚ÄîDidi alone. Whereas‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
I hadn't thought of that.
ESTRAGON:
If it hangs you it'll hang anything.
VLADIMIR:
But am I heavier than you?
ESTRAGON:
So you tell me. I don't know. There's an even chance. Or nearly.
VLADIMIR:
Well? What do we do?
ESTRAGON:
Don't let's do anything. It's safer.
VLADIMIR:
Let's wait and see what he says.
ESTRAGON:
Who?
VLADIMIR:
Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Good idea.
VLADIMIR:
Let's wait till we know exactly how we stand.
ESTRAGON:
On the other hand it might be better to strike the iron before it freezes.
VLADIMIR:
I'm curious to hear what he has to offer. Then we'll take it or leave it.
ESTRAGON:
What exactly did we ask him for?
VLADIMIR:
Were you not there?
ESTRAGON:
I can't have been listening.
VLADIMIR:
Oh . . . Nothing very definite.
ESTRAGON:
A kind of prayer.
VLADIMIR:
Precisely.
ESTRAGON:
A vague supplication.
VLADIMIR:
Exactly.
ESTRAGON:
And what did he reply?
VLADIMIR:
That he'd see.
ESTRAGON:
That he couldn't promise anything.
VLADIMIR:
That he'd have to think it over.
ESTRAGON:
In the quiet of his home.
VLADIMIR:
Consult his family.
ESTRAGON:
His friends.
VLADIMIR:
His agents.
ESTRAGON:
His correspondents.
VLADIMIR:
His books.
ESTRAGON:
His bank account.
VLADIMIR:
Before taking a decision.
ESTRAGON:
It's the normal thing.
VLADIMIR:
Is it not?
ESTRAGON:
I think it is.
VLADIMIR:
I think so too.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
(anxious). And we?
VLADIMIR:
I beg your pardon?
ESTRAGON:
I said, And we?
VLADIMIR:
I don't understand.
ESTRAGON:
Where do we come in?
VLADIMIR:
Come in?
ESTRAGON:
Take your time.
VLADIMIR:
Come in? On our hands and knees.
ESTRAGON:
As bad as that?
VLADIMIR:
Your Worship wishes to assert his prerogatives?
ESTRAGON:
We've no rights any more?
Laugh of Vladimir, stifled as before, less the smile.
VLADIMIR:
You'd make me laugh if it wasn't prohibited.
ESTRAGON:
We've lost our rights?
VLADIMIR:
(distinctly). We got rid of them.
Silence. They remain motionless, arms dangling, heads sunk, sagging at the knees.
ESTRAGON:
(feebly). We're not tied? (Pause.) We're not‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Listen!
They listen, grotesquely rigid. #

ESTRAGON:
I hear nothing.
VLADIMIR:
Hsst! (They listen. Estragon loses his balance, almost falls. He clutches the arm of Vladimir, who totters. They listen, huddled together.) Nor I.
Sighs of relief. They relax and separate.
ESTRAGON:
You gave me a fright.
VLADIMIR:
I thought it was he.
ESTRAGON:
Who?
VLADIMIR:
Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Pah! The wind in the reeds.
VLADIMIR:
I could have sworn I heard shouts.
ESTRAGON:
And why would he shout?
VLADIMIR:
At his horse.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
(violently). I'm hungry!
VLADIMIR:
Do you want a carrot?
ESTRAGON:
Is that all there is?
VLADIMIR:
I might have some turnips.
ESTRAGON:
Give me a carrot. (Vladimir rummages in his pockets, takes out a turnip and gives it to Estragon who takes a bite out of it. Angrily.) It's a turnip!
VLADIMIR:
Oh pardon! I could have sworn it was a carrot. (He rummages again in his pockets, finds nothing but turnips.) All that's turnips. (He rummages.) You must have eaten the last. (He rummages.) Wait, I have it. (He brings out a carrot and gives it to Estragon.) There, dear fellow. #

(Estragon wipes the carrot on his sleeve and begins to eat it.) Make it last, that's the end of them.
ESTRAGON:
(chewing). I asked you a question.
VLADIMIR:
Ah.
ESTRAGON:
Did you reply?
VLADIMIR:
How's the carrot?
ESTRAGON:
It's a carrot.
VLADIMIR:
So much the better, so much the better. (Pause.) What was it you wanted to know?
ESTRAGON:
I've forgotten. (Chews.) That's what annoys me. (He looks at the carrot appreciatively, dangles it between finger and thumb.) I'll never forget this carrot. (He sucks the end of it meditatively.) Ah yes, now I remember.
VLADIMIR:
Well?
ESTRAGON:
(his mouth full, vacuously). We're not tied?
VLADIMIR:
I don't hear a word you're saying.
ESTRAGON:
(chews, swallows). I'm asking you if we're tied.
VLADIMIR:
Tied?
ESTRAGON:
Ti-ed.
VLADIMIR:
How do you mean tied?
ESTRAGON:
Down.
VLADIMIR:
But to whom? By whom?
ESTRAGON:
To your man.
VLADIMIR:
To Godot? Tied to Godot! What an idea! No question of it. (Pause.) For the moment.
ESTRAGON:
His name is Godot?
VLADIMIR:
I think so.
ESTRAGON:
Fancy that. (He raises what remains of the carrot by the stub of leaf, twirls it before his eyes.) Funny, the more you eat the worse it gets.
VLADIMIR:
With me it's just the opposite.
ESTRAGON:
In other words?
VLADIMIR:
I get used to the muck as I go along.
ESTRAGON:
(after prolonged reflection). Is that the opposite?
VLADIMIR:
Question of temperament.
ESTRAGON:
Of character.
VLADIMIR:
Nothing you can do about it.
ESTRAGON:
No use struggling.
VLADIMIR:
One is what one is.
ESTRAGON:
No use wriggling.
VLADIMIR:
The essential doesn't change.
ESTRAGON:
Nothing to be done. (He proffers the remains of the carrot to Vladimir.) Like to finish it?
A terrible cry, close at hand. Estragon drops the carrot. They remain motionless, then together make a sudden rush towards the wings. Estragon stops halfway, runs back, picks up the carrot, stuffs it in his pocket, runs to rejoin Vladimir who is waiting for him, stops again, runs back, picks up his boot, runs to rejoin Vladimir. Huddled together, shoulders hunched, cringing away from the menace, they wait. #

Enter Pozzo and Lucky. Pozzo drives Lucky by means of a rope passed round his neck, so that Lucky is the first to enter, followed by the rope which is long enough to let him reach the middle of the stage before Pozzo appears. Lucky carries a heavy bag, a folding stool, a picnic basket and a greatcoat, Pozzo a whip.
POZZO:
(off). On! (Crack of whip. Pozzo appears. They cross the stage. Lucky passes before Vladimir and Estragon and exit. Pozzo at the sight of Vladimir and Estragon stops short. The rope tautens. Pozzo jerks at it violently.) Back!
Noise of Lucky falling with all his baggage. Vladimir and Estragon turn towards him, half wishing half fearing to go to his assistance. Vladimir takes a step towards Lucky, Estragon holds him back by the sleeve.
VLADIMIR:
Let me go!
ESTRAGON:
Stay where you are!
POZZO:
Be careful! He's wicked. (Vladimir and Estragon turn towards Pozzo.) With strangers.
ESTRAGON:
(undertone). Is that him?
VLADIMIR:
Who?
ESTRAGON:
(trying to remember the name). Er . . .
VLADIMIR:
Godot?
ESTRAGON:
Yes.
POZZO:
I present myself: Pozzo.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). Not at all!
ESTRAGON:
He said Godot.
VLADIMIR:
Not at all!
ESTRAGON:
(timidly, to Pozzo). You're not Mr. Godot, Sir?
POZZO:
(terrifying voice). I am Pozzo! (Silence.) Pozzo! (Silence.) Does that name mean nothing to you? (Silence.) I say does that name mean nothing to you?
Vladimir and Estragon look at each other questioningly.
ESTRAGON:
(pretending to search). Bozzo . . . Bozzo . . .
VLADIMIR:
(ditto). Pozzo . . . Pozzo . . .
POZZO:
PPPOZZZO!
ESTRAGON:
Ah! Pozzo . . . let me see . . . Pozzo . . .
VLADIMIR:
Is it Pozzo or Bozzo?
ESTRAGON:
Pozzo . . . no . . . I'm afraid I . . . no . . . I don't seem to . . .
Pozzo advances threateningly.
VLADIMIR:
(conciliating). I once knew a family called Gozzo. The mother had the clap.
ESTRAGON:
(hastily). We're not from these parts, Sir.
POZZO:
(halting). You are human beings none the less. (He puts on his glasses.) As far as one can see. (He takes off his glasses.) Of the same species as myself. (He bursts into an enormous laugh.) Of the same species as Pozzo! Made in God's image!
VLADIMIR:
Well you see‚Äî
POZZO:
(peremptory). Who is Godot?
ESTRAGON:
Godot?
POZZO:
You took me for Godot.
VLADIMIR:
Oh no, Sir, not for an instant, Sir.
POZZO:
Who is he?
VLADIMIR:
Oh he's a . . . he's a kind of acquaintance.
ESTRAGON:
Nothing of the kind, we hardly know him.
VLADIMIR:
True . . . we don't know him very well . . . but all the same . . .
ESTRAGON:
Personally, I wouldn't even know him if I saw him.
POZZO:
You took me for him.
ESTRAGON:
(recoiling before Pozzo). That's to say . . . you understand . . . the dusk . . . the strain . . . waiting . . . I confess . . . I imagined . . . for a second . . .
POZZO:
Waiting? So you were waiting for him?
VLADIMIR:
Well you see‚Äî
POZZO:
Here? On my land?
VLADIMIR:
We didn't intend any harm.
ESTRAGON:
We meant well.
POZZO:
The road is free to all.
VLADIMIR:
That's how we looked at it.
POZZO:
It's a disgrace. But there you are.
ESTRAGON:
Nothing we can do about it.
POZZO:
(with magnanimous gesture). Let's say no more about it. (He jerks the rope.) Up pig! (Pause.) Every time he drops he falls asleep. (Jerks the rope.) Up hog! (Noise of Lucky getting up and picking up his baggage. Pozzo jerks the rope.) Back! (Enter Lucky backwards.) Stop! (Lucky stops.) Turn! (Lucky turns. To Vladimir and Estragon, affably.) Gentlemen, I am happy to have met you. (Before their incredulous expression.) Yes yes, sincerely happy. (He jerks the rope.) Closer! (Lucky advances.) Stop! (Lucky stops.) Yes, the road seems long when one journeys all alone for . . . (he consults his watch) . . . yes . . . (he calculates) . . . yes, six hours, that's right, six hours on end, and never a soul in sight. (To Lucky.) Coat! (Lucky puts down the bag, advances, gives the coat, goes back to his place, takes up the bag.) Hold that! (Pozzo holds out the whip. Lucky advances and, both his hands being occupied, takes the whip in his mouth, then goes back to his place. Pozzo begins to put on his coat, stops.) Coat! (Lucky puts down the bag, basket and stool, helps Pozzo on with his coat, goes back to his place and takes up bag, basket and stool.) Touch of autumn in the air this evening. (Pozzo finishes buttoning up his coat, stoops, inspects himself, straightens up.) Whip! (Lucky advances, stoops, Pozzo snatches the whip from his mouth, Lucky goes back to his place.) Yes, gentlemen, I cannot go for long without the society of my likes (he puts on his glasses and looks at the two likes) even when the likeness is an imperfect one. (He takes off his glasses.) Stool! (Lucky puts down bag and basket, advances, opens stool, puts it down, goes back to his place, takes up bag and basket.) Closer! (Lucky puts down bag and basket, advances, moves stool, goes back to his place, takes up bag and basket. Pozzo sits down, places the butt of his whip against Lucky's chest and pushes.) Back! (Lucky takes a step back.) Further! (Lucky takes another step back.) Stop! (Lucky stops. To Vladimir and Estragon.) That is why, with your permission, I propose to dally with you a moment, before I venture any further. Basket! (Lucky advances, gives the basket, goes back to his place.) The fresh air stimulates the jaded appetite. (He opens the basket, takes out a piece of chicken and a bottle of wine.) Basket! (Lucky advances, picks up the basket and goes back to his place.) Further! (Lucky takes a step back.) He stinks. Happy days!
He drinks from the bottle, puts it down and begins to eat. Silence. #

Vladimir and Estragon, cautiously at first, then more boldly, begin to circle about Lucky, inspecting him up and down. Pozzo eats his chicken voraciously, throwing away the bones after having sucked them. Lucky sags slowly, until bag and basket touch the ground, then straightens up with a start and begins to sag again. Rhythm of one sleeping on his feet.
ESTRAGON:
What ails him?
VLADIMIR:
He looks tired.
ESTRAGON:
Why doesn't he put down his bags?
VLADIMIR:
How do I know? (They close in on him.) Careful!
ESTRAGON:
Say something to him.
VLADIMIR:
Look!
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
(pointing). His neck!
ESTRAGON:
(looking at the neck). I see nothing.
VLADIMIR:
Here.
Estragon goes over beside Vladimir.
ESTRAGON:
Oh I say!
VLADIMIR:
A running sore!
ESTRAGON:
It's the rope.
VLADIMIR:
It's the rubbing.
ESTRAGON:
It's inevitable.
VLADIMIR:
It's the knot.
ESTRAGON:
It's the chafing.
They resume their inspection, dwell on the face.
VLADIMIR:
(grudgingly). He's not bad looking.
ESTRAGON:
(shrugging his shoulders, wry face.) Would you say so?
VLADIMIR:
A trifle effeminate.
ESTRAGON:
Look at the slobber.
VLADIMIR:
It's inevitable.
ESTRAGON:
Look at the slaver.
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps he's a halfwit.
ESTRAGON:
A cretin.
VLADIMIR:
(looking closer). Looks like a goiter.
ESTRAGON:
(ditto). It's not certain.
VLADIMIR:
He's panting.
ESTRAGON:
It's inevitable.
VLADIMIR:
And his eyes!
ESTRAGON:
What about them?
VLADIMIR:
Goggling out of his head. #

ESTRAGON:
Looks like his last gasp to me.
VLADIMIR:
It's not certain. (Pause.) Ask him a question.
ESTRAGON:
Would that be a good thing?
VLADIMIR:
What do we risk?
ESTRAGON:
(timidly). Mister . . .
VLADIMIR:
Louder.
ESTRAGON:
(louder). Mister . . .
POZZO:
Leave him in peace! (They turn toward Pozzo who, having finished eating, wipes his mouth with the back of his hand.) Can't you see he wants to rest? Basket! (He strikes a match and begins to light his pipe. Estragon sees the chicken bones on the ground and stares at them greedily. As Lucky does not move Pozzo throws the match angrily away and jerks the rope.) Basket! (Lucky starts, almost falls, recovers his senses, advances, puts the bottle in the basket and goes back to his place. Estragon stares at the bones. Pozzo strikes another match and lights his pipe.) What can you expect, it's not his job. (He pulls at his pipe, stretches out his legs.) Ah! That's better.
ESTRAGON:
(timidly). Please Sir . . .
POZZO:
What is it, my good man?
ESTRAGON:
Er . . . you've finished with the . . . er . . . you don't need the . . . er . . . bones, Sir?
VLADIMIR:
(scandalized). You couldn't have waited?
POZZO:
No no, he does well to ask. Do I need the bones? (He turns them over with the end of his whip.) No, personally I do not need them any more. (Estragon takes a step towards the bones.) But . . . (Estragon stops short) . . . but in theory the bones go to the carrier. He is therefore the one to ask. (Estragon turns towards Lucky, hesitates.) Go on, go on, don't be afraid, ask him, he'll tell you.
Estragon goes towards Lucky, stops before him.
ESTRAGON:
Mister . . . excuse me, Mister . . .
POZZO:
You're being spoken to, pig! Reply! (To Estragon.) Try him again.
ESTRAGON:
Excuse me, Mister, the bones, you won't be wanting the bones?
Lucky looks long at Estragon.
POZZO:
(in raptures). Mister! (Lucky bows his head.) Reply! Do you want them or don't you? (Silence of Lucky. To Estragon.) They're yours. (Estragon makes a dart at the bones, picks them up and begins to gnaw them.) I don't like it. I've never known him to refuse a bone before. (He looks anxiously at Lucky.) Nice business it'd be if he fell sick on me!
He puffs at his pipe.
VLADIMIR:
(exploding). It's a scandal!
Silence. Flabbergasted, Estragon stops gnawing, looks at Pozzo and Vladimir in turn. Pozzo outwardly calm. Vladimir embarrassed.
POZZO:
(To Vladimir). Are you alluding to anything in particular?
VLADIMIR:
(stutteringly resolute). To treat a man . . . (gesture towards Lucky) . . . like that . . . I think that . . . no . . . a human being . . . no . . . it's a scandal!
ESTRAGON:
(not to be outdone). A disgrace!
He resumes his gnawing.
POZZO:
You are severe. (To Vladimir.) What age are you, if it's not a rude question? (Silence.) Sixty? Seventy? (To Estragon.) What age would you say he was?
ESTRAGON:
Eleven.
POZZO:
I am impertinent. (He knocks out his pipe against the whip, gets up.) I must be getting on. Thank you for your society. (He reflects.) Unless I smoke another pipe before I go. What do you say? (They say nothing.) Oh I'm only a small smoker, a very small smoker, I'm not in the habit of smoking two pipes one on top of the other, it makes (hand to heart, sighing) my heart go pit-a-pat. (Silence.) It's the nicotine, one absorbs it in spite of one's precautions. (Sighs.) You know how it is. (Silence.) But perhaps you don't smoke? Yes? No? It's of no importance. (Silence.) But how am I to sit down now, without affectation, now that I have risen? Without appearing to ‚Äìhow shall I say‚Äì without appearing to falter. (To Vladimir.) I beg your pardon? (Silence.) Perhaps you didn't speak? (Silence.) It's of no importance. Let me see . . .
He reflects.
ESTRAGON:
Ah! That's better.
He puts the bones in his pocket.
VLADIMIR:
Let's go.
ESTRAGON:
So soon?
POZZO:
One moment! (He jerks the rope.) Stool! (He points with his whip. Lucky moves the stool.) More! There! (He sits down. Lucky goes back to his place.) Done it!
He fills his pipe.
VLADIMIR:
(vehemently). Let's go!
POZZO:
I hope I'm not driving you away. Wait a little longer, you'll never regret it.
ESTRAGON:
(scenting charity). We're in no hurry.
POZZO:
(having lit his pipe). The second is never so sweet . . . (he takes the pipe out of his mouth, contemplates it) . . . as the first I mean. (He puts the pipe back in his mouth.) But it's sweet just the same.
VLADIMIR:
I'm going.
POZZO:
He can no longer endure my presence. I am perhaps not particularly human, but who cares? (To Vladimir.) Think twice before you do anything rash. Suppose you go now while it is still day, for there is no denying it is still day. (They all look up at the sky.) Good. (They stop looking at the sky.) What happens in that case‚Äì (he takes the pipe out of his mouth, examines it) ‚ÄìI'm out‚Äì (he relights his pipe) ‚Äìin that case‚Äì (puff) ‚Äìin that case‚Äì (puff) ‚Äìwhat happens in that case to your appointment with this . . . Godet . . . Godot . . . Godin . . . anyhow you see who I mean, who has your future in his hands . . . (pause) . . . at least your immediate future?
VLADIMIR:
Who told you?
POZZO:
He speaks to me again! If this goes on much longer we'll soon be old friends.
ESTRAGON:
Why doesn't he put down his bags?
POZZO:
I too would be happy to meet him. The more people I meet the happier I become. From the meanest creature one departs wiser, richer, more conscious of one's blessings. Even you . . . (he looks at them ostentatiously in turn to make it clear they are both meant) . . . even you, who knows, will have added to my store.
ESTRAGON:
Why doesn't he put down his bags?
POZZO:
But that would surprise me.
VLADIMIR:
You're being asked a question.
POZZO:
(delighted). A question! Who? What? A moment ago you were calling me Sir, in fear and trembling. Now you're asking me questions. No good will come of this!
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). I think he's listening.
ESTRAGON:
(circling about Lucky). What?
VLADIMIR:
You can ask him now. He's on the alert.
ESTRAGON:
Ask him what?
VLADIMIR:
Why he doesn't put down his bags.
ESTRAGON:
I wonder.
VLADIMIR:
Ask him, can't you?
POZZO:
(who has followed these exchanges with anxious attention, fearing lest the question get lost). You want to know why he doesn't put down his bags, as you call them.
VLADIMIR:
That's it.
POZZO:
(to Estragon). You are sure you agree with that?
ESTRAGON:
He's puffing like a grampus.
POZZO:
The answer is this. (To Estragon). But stay still, I beg of you, you're making me nervous!
VLADIMIR:
Here.
ESTRAGON:
What is it?
VLADIMIR:
He's about to speak.
Estragon goes over beside Vladimir. Motionless, side by side, they wait.
POZZO:
Good. Is everybody ready? Is everybody looking at me? (He looks at Lucky, jerks the rope. Lucky raises his head.) Will you look at me, pig! (Lucky looks at him.) Good. (He puts the pipe in his pocket, takes out a little vaporizer and sprays his throat, puts back the vaporizer in his pocket, clears his throat, spits, takes out the vaporizer again, sprays his throat again, puts back the vaporizer in his pocket.) I am ready. Is everybody listening? Is everybody ready? (He looks at them all in turn, jerks the rope.) Hog! (Lucky raises his head.) I don't like talking in a vacuum. Good. Let me see.
He reflects.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
POZZO:
What was it exactly you wanted to know?
VLADIMIR:
Why he‚Äî
POZZO:
(angrily). Don't interrupt me! (Pause. Calmer.) If we all speak at once we'll never get anywhere. (Pause.) What was I saying? (Pause. Louder.) What was I saying?
Vladimir mimics one carrying a heavy burden. Pozzo looks at him, puzzled.
ESTRAGON:
(forcibly). Bags. (He points at Lucky.) Why? Always hold. (He sags, panting.) Never put down. (He opens his hands, straightens up with relief.) Why?
POZZO:
Ah! Why couldn't you say so before? Why he doesn't make himself comfortable? Let's try and get this clear. Has he not the right to? Certainly he has. It follows that he doesn't want to. There's reasoning for you. And why doesn't he want to? (Pause.) Gentlemen, the reason is this.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). Make a note of this.
POZZO:
He wants to impress me, so that I'll keep him.
ESTRAGON:
What?
POZZO:
Perhaps I haven't got it quite right. He wants to mollify me, so that I'll give up the idea of parting with him. No, that's not exactly it either.
VLADIMIR:
You want to get rid of him?
POZZO:
He wants to cod me, but he won't.
VLADIMIR:
You want to get rid of him?
POZZO:
He imagines that when I see how well he carries I'll be tempted to keep him on in that capacity.
ESTRAGON:
You've had enough of him?
POZZO:
In reality he carries like a pig. It's not his job.
VLADIMIR:
You want to get rid of him?
POZZO:
He imagines that when I see him indefatigable I'll regret my decision. Such is his miserable scheme. As though I were short of slaves! (All three look at Lucky.) Atlas, son of Jupiter! (Silence.) Well, that's that, I think. Anything else?
Vaporizer.
VLADIMIR:
You want to get rid of him?
POZZO:
Remark that I might just as well have been in his shoes and he in mine. If chance had not willed otherwise. To each one his due.
VLADIMIR:
You waagerrim?
POZZO:
I beg your pardon?
VLADIMIR:
You want to get rid of him?
POZZO:
I do. But instead of driving him away as I might have done, I mean instead of simply kicking him out on his arse, in the goodness of my heart I am bringing him to the fair, where I hope to get a good price for him. The truth is you can't drive such creatures away. The best thing would be to kill them.
Lucky weeps.
ESTRAGON:
He's crying!
POZZO:
Old dogs have more dignity. (He proffers his handkerchief to Estragon.) Comfort him, since you pity him. (Estragon hesitates.) Come on. (Estragon takes the handkerchief.) Wipe away his tears, he'll feel less forsaken.
Estragon hesitates.
VLADIMIR:
Here, give it to me, I'll do it.
Estragon refuses to give the handkerchief.
Childish gestures.
POZZO:
Make haste, before he stops. (Estragon approaches Lucky and makes to wipe his eyes. Lucky kicks him violently in the shins. Estragon drops the handkerchief, recoils, staggers about the stage howling with pain.) Hanky!
Lucky puts down bag and basket, picks up handkerchief and gives it to Pozzo, goes back to his place, picks up bag and basket.
ESTRAGON:
Oh the swine! (He pulls up the leg of his trousers.) He's crippled me!
POZZO:
I told you he didn't like strangers.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). Show me. (Estragon shows his leg. To Pozzo, angrily.) He's bleeding!
POZZO:
It's a good sign.
ESTRAGON:
(on one leg). I'll never walk again!
VLADIMIR:
(tenderly). I'll carry you. (Pause.) If necessary.
POZZO:
He's stopped crying. (To Estragon.) You have replaced him as it were. (Lyrically.) The tears of the world are a constant quantity. For each one who begins to weep, somewhere else another stops. The same is true of the laugh. (He laughs.) Let us not then speak ill of our generation, it is not any unhappier than its predecessors. (Pause.) Let us not speak well of it either. (Pause.) Let us not speak of it at all. (Pause. Judiciously.) It is true the population has increased.
VLADIMIR:
Try and walk.
Estragon takes a few limping steps, stops before Lucky and spits on him, then goes and sits down on the mound.
POZZO:
Guess who taught me all these beautiful things. (Pause. Pointing to Lucky.) My Lucky!
VLADIMIR:
(looking at the sky.) Will night never come?
POZZO:
But for him all my thoughts, all my feelings, would have been of common things. (Pause. With extraordinary vehemence.) Professional worries! (Calmer.) Beauty, grace, truth of the first water, I knew they were all beyond me. So I took a knook.
VLADIMIR:
(startled from his inspection of the sky). A knook?
POZZO:
That was nearly sixty years ago . . . (he consults his watch) . . . yes, nearly sixty. (Drawing himself up proudly.) You wouldn't think it to look at me, would you? Compared to him I look like a young man, no? (Pause.) Hat! (Lucky puts down the basket and takes off his hat. His long white hair falls about his face. He puts his hat under his arm and picks up the basket.) Now look. (Pozzo takes off his hat. [All four wear bowlers.] He is completely bald. He puts on his hat again.) Did you see?
VLADIMIR:
And now you turn him away? Such an old and faithful servant!
ESTRAGON:
Swine!
Pozzo more and more agitated.
VLADIMIR:
After having sucked all the good out of him you chuck him away like a . . . like a banana skin. Really . . .
POZZO:
(groaning, clutching his head). I can't bear it . . . any longer . . . the way he goes on . . . you've no idea . . . it's terrible . . . he must go . . . (he waves his arms) . . . I'm going mad . . . (he collapses, his head in his hands) . . . I can't bear it . . . any longer . . .
Silence. All look at Pozzo.
VLADIMIR:
He can't bear it.
ESTRAGON:
Any longer.
VLADIMIR:
He's going mad.
ESTRAGON:
It's terrible.
VLADIMIR:
(to Lucky). How dare you! It's abominable! Such a good master! Crucify him like that! After so many years! Really!
POZZO:
(sobbing). He used to be so kind . . . so helpful . . . and entertaining . . . my good angel . . . and now . . . he's killing me.
ESTRAGON:
( to Vladimir). Does he want to replace him?
VLADIMIR:
What?
ESTRAGON:
Does he want someone to take his place or not?
VLADIMIR:
I don't think so.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know.
ESTRAGON:
Ask him.
POZZO:
(calmer). Gentlemen, I don't know what came over me. Forgive me. Forget all I said. (More and more his old self.) I don't remember exactly what it was, but you may be sure there wasn't a word of truth in it. (Drawing himself up, striking his chest.) Do I look like a man that can be made to suffer? Frankly? (He rummages in his pockets.) What have I done with my pipe?
VLADIMIR:
Charming evening we're having.
ESTRAGON:
Unforgettable.
VLADIMIR:
And it's not over.
ESTRAGON:
Apparently not.
VLADIMIR:
It's only beginning.
ESTRAGON:
It's awful.
VLADIMIR:
Worse than the pantomime.
ESTRAGON:
The circus.
VLADIMIR:
The music-hall.
ESTRAGON:
The circus.
POZZO:
What can I have done with that briar?
ESTRAGON:
He's a scream. He's lost his dudeen.
Laughs noisily.
VLADIMIR:
I'll be back.
He hastens towards the wings.
ESTRAGON:
End of the corridor, on the left.
VLADIMIR:
Keep my seat.
Exit Vladimir.
POZZO:
(on the point of tears). I've lost my Kapp and Peterson!
ESTRAGON:
(convulsed with merriment). He'll be the death of me!
POZZO:
You didn't see by any chance‚Äì (He misses Vladimir.) Oh! He's gone! Without saying goodbye! How could he! He might have waited!
ESTRAGON:
He would have burst.
POZZO:
Oh! (Pause.) Oh well then of course in that case . . .
ESTRAGON:
Come here.
POZZO:
What for?
ESTRAGON:
You'll see.
POZZO:
You want me to get up?
ESTRAGON:
Quick! (Pozzo gets up and goes over beside Estragon. Estragon points off.) Look!
POZZO:
(having put on his glasses). Oh I say!
ESTRAGON:
It's all over.
Enter Vladimir, somber. He shoulders Lucky out of his way, kicks over the stool, comes and goes agitatedly.
POZZO:
He's not pleased.
ESTRAGON:
(to Vladimir). You missed a treat. Pity.
Vladimir halts, straightens the stool, comes and goes, calmer.
POZZO:
He subsides. (Looking round.) Indeed all subsides. A great calm descends. (Raising his hand.) Listen! Pan sleeps.
VLADIMIR:
Will night never come?
All three look at the sky.
POZZO:
You don't feel like going until it does?
ESTRAGON:
Well you see‚Äî
POZZO:
Why it's very natural, very natural. I myself in your situation, if I had an appointment with a Godin . . . Godet . . . Godot . . . anyhow, you see who I mean, I'd wait till it was black night before I gave up. (He looks at the stool.) I'd very much like to sit down, but I don't quite know how to go about it.
ESTRAGON:
Could I be of any help?
POZZO:
If you asked me perhaps.
ESTRAGON:
What?
POZZO:
If you asked me to sit down.
ESTRAGON:
Would that be a help?
POZZO:
I fancy so.
ESTRAGON:
Here we go. Be seated, Sir, I beg of you.
POZZO:
No no, I wouldn't think of it! (Pause. Aside.) Ask me again.
ESTRAGON:
Come come, take a seat I beseech you, you'll get pneumonia.
POZZO:
You really think so?
ESTRAGON:
Why it's absolutely certain.
POZZO:
No doubt you are right. (He sits down.) Done it again! (Pause.) Thank you, dear fellow. (He consults his watch.) But I must really be getting along, if I am to observe my schedule.
VLADIMIR:
Time has stopped.
POZZO:
(cuddling his watch to his ear). Don't you believe it, Sir, don't you believe it. (He puts his watch back in his pocket.) Whatever you like, but not that.
ESTRAGON:
(to Pozzo). Everything seems black to him today.
POZZO:
Except the firmament. (He laughs, pleased with this witticism.) But I see what it is, you are not from these parts, you don't know what our twilights can do. Shall I tell you? (Silence. Estragon is fiddling with his boot again, Vladimir with his hat.) I can't refuse you. (Vaporizer.) A little attention, if you please. (Vladimir and Estragon continue their fiddling, Lucky is half asleep. Pozzo cracks his whip feebly.) What's the matter with this whip? (He gets up and cracks it more vigorously, finally with success. Lucky jumps. Vladimir's hat, Estragon's boot, Lucky's hat, fall to the ground. Pozzo throws down the whip.) Worn out, this whip. (He looks at Vladimir and Estragon.) What was I saying?
VLADIMIR:
Let's go.
ESTRAGON:
But take the weight off your feet, I implore you, you'll catch your death.
POZZO:
True. (He sits down. To Estragon.) What is your name?
ESTRAGON:
Adam.
POZZO:
(who hasn't listened). Ah yes! The night. (He raises his head.) But be a little more attentive, for pity's sake, otherwise we'll never get anywhere. (He looks at the sky.) Look! (All look at the sky except Lucky who is dozing off again. Pozzo jerks the rope.) Will you look at the sky, pig! (Lucky looks at the sky.) Good, that's enough. (They stop looking at the sky.) What is there so extraordinary about it? Qua sky. It is pale and luminous like any sky at this hour of the day. (Pause.) In these latitudes. (Pause.) When the weather is fine. (Lyrical.) An hour ago (he looks at his watch, prosaic) roughly (lyrical) after having poured forth even since (he hesitates, prosaic) say ten o'clock in the morning (lyrical) tirelessly torrents of red and white light it begins to lose its effulgence, to grow pale (gesture of the two hands lapsing by stages) pale, ever a little paler, a little paler until (dramatic pause, ample gesture of the two hands flung wide apart) pppfff! finished! it comes to rest. But‚Äì (hand raised in admonition)‚Äì but behind this veil of gentleness and peace, night is charging (vibrantly) and will burst upon us (snaps his fingers) pop! like that! (his inspiration leaves him) just when we least expect it. (Silence. Gloomily.) That's how it is on this bitch of an earth.
Long silence.
ESTRAGON:
So long as one knows.
VLADIMIR:
One can bide one's time.
ESTRAGON:
One knows what to expect.
VLADIMIR:
No further need to worry.
ESTRAGON:
Simply wait.
VLADIMIR:
We're used to it.
He picks up his hat, peers inside it, shakes it, puts it on.
POZZO:
How did you find me? (Vladimir and Estragon look at him blankly.) Good? Fair? Middling? Poor? Positively bad?
VLADIMIR:
(first to understand). Oh very good, very very good.
POZZO:
(to Estragon). And you, Sir?
ESTRAGON:
Oh tray bong, tray tray tray bong.
POZZO:
(fervently). Bless you, gentlemen, bless you! (Pause.) I have such need of encouragement! (Pause.) I weakened a little towards the end, you didn't notice?
VLADIMIR:
Oh perhaps just a teeny weeny little bit.
ESTRAGON:
I thought it was intentional.
POZZO:
You see my memory is defective.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
In the meantime, nothing happens.
POZZO:
You find it tedious?
ESTRAGON:
Somewhat.
POZZO:
(to Vladimir). And you, Sir?
VLADIMIR:
I've been better entertained.
Silence. Pozzo struggles inwardly.
POZZO:
Gentlemen, you have been . . . civil to me.
ESTRAGON:
Not at all!
VLADIMIR:
What an idea!
POZZO:
Yes yes, you have been correct. So that I ask myself is there anything I can do in my turn for these honest fellows who are having such a dull, dull time.
ESTRAGON:
Even ten francs would be a help.
VLADIMIR:
We are not beggars!
POZZO:
Is there anything I can do, that's what I ask myself, to cheer them up? I have given them bones, I have talked to them about this and that, I have explained the twilight, admittedly. But is it enough, that's what tortures me, is it enough?
ESTRAGON:
Even five.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon, indignantly). That's enough!
ESTRAGON:
I couldn't accept less.
POZZO:
Is is enough? No doubt. But I am liberal. It's my nature. This evening. So much the worse for me. (He jerks the rope. Lucky looks at him.) For I shall suffer, no doubt about that. (He picks up the whip.) What do you prefer? Shall we have him dance, or sing, or recite, or think, or‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
Who?
POZZO:
Who! You know how to think, you two?
VLADIMIR:
He thinks?
POZZO:
Certainly. Aloud. He even used to think very prettily once, I could listen to him for hours. Now . . . (he shudders). So much the worse for me. Well, would you like him to think something for us?
ESTRAGON:
I'd rather he dance, it'd be more fun.
POZZO:
Not necessarily.
ESTRAGON:
Wouldn't it, Didi, be more fun?
VLADIMIR:
I'd like well to hear him think.
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps he could dance first and think afterwards, if it isn't too much to ask him.
VLADIMIR:
(to Pozzo). Would that be possible?
POZZO:
By all means, nothing simpler. It's the natural order.
He laughs briefly.
VLADIMIR:
Then let him dance.
Silence.
POZZO:
Do you hear, hog?
ESTRAGON:
He never refuses?
POZZO:
He refused once. (Silence.) Dance, misery!
Lucky puts down bag and basket, advances towards front, turns to Pozzo. Lucky dances. He stops.
ESTRAGON:
Is that all?
POZZO:
Encore!
Lucky executes the same movements, stops.
ESTRAGON:
Pooh! I'd do as well myself. (He imitates Lucky, almost falls.) With a little practice.
POZZO:
He used to dance the farandole, the fling, the brawl, the jig, the fandango and even the hornpipe. He capered. For joy. Now that's the best he can do. Do you know what he calls it?
ESTRAGON:
The Scapegoat's Agony.
VLADIMIR:
The Hard Stool.
POZZO:
The Net. He thinks he's entangled in a net.
VLADIMIR:
(squirming like an aesthete). There's something about it . . .
Lucky makes to return to his burdens.
POZZO:
Woaa!
Lucky stiffens.
ESTRAGON:
Tell us about the time he refused.
POZZO:
With pleasure, with pleasure. (He fumbles in his pockets.) Wait. (He fumbles.) What have I done with my spray? (He fumbles.) Well now isn't that . . . (He looks up, consternation on his features. Faintly.) I can't find my pulverizer!
ESTRAGON:
(faintly). My left lung is very weak! (He coughs feebly. In ringing tones.) But my right lung is as sound as a bell!
POZZO:
(normal voice). No matter! What was I saying. (He ponders.) Wait. (Ponders.) Well now isn't that . . . (He raises his head.) Help me!
ESTRAGON:
Wait!
VLADIMIR:
Wait!
POZZO:
Wait!
All three take off their hats simultaneously, press their hands to their foreheads, concentrate.
ESTRAGON:
(triumphantly). Ah!
VLADIMIR:
He has it.
POZZO:
(impatient). Well?
ESTRAGON:
Why doesn't he put down his bags?
VLADIMIR:
Rubbish!
POZZO:
Are you sure?
VLADIMIR:
Damn it haven't you already told us?
POZZO:
I've already told you?
ESTRAGON:
He's already told us?
VLADIMIR:
Anyway he has put them down.
ESTRAGON:
(glance at Lucky). So he has. And what of it?
VLADIMIR:
Since he has put down his bags it is impossible we should have asked why he does not do so.
POZZO:
Stoutly reasoned!
ESTRAGON:
And why has he put them down?
POZZO:
Answer us that.
VLADIMIR:
In order to dance.
ESTRAGON:
True!
POZZO:
True!
Silence. They put on their hats.
ESTRAGON:
Nothing happens, nobody comes, nobody goes, it's awful!
VLADIMIR:
(to Pozzo). Tell him to think.
POZZO:
Give him his hat.
VLADIMIR:
His hat?
POZZO:
He can't think without his hat.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). Give him his hat.
ESTRAGON:
Me! After what he did to me! Never!
VLADIMIR:
I'll give it to him.
He does not move.
ESTRAGON:
(to Pozzo). Tell him to go and fetch it.
POZZO:
It's better to give it to him.
VLADIMIR:
I'll give it to him.
He picks up the hat and tenders it at arm's length to Lucky, who does not move.
POZZO:
You must put it on his head.
ESTRAGON:
(to Pozzo). Tell him to take it.
POZZO:
It's better to put it on his head.
VLADIMIR:
I'll put it on his head.
He goes round behind Lucky, approaches him cautiously, puts the hat on his head and recoils smartly. Lucky does not move. Silence.
ESTRAGON:
What's he waiting for?
POZZO:
Stand back! (Vladimir and Estragon move away from Lucky. Pozzo jerks the rope. Lucky looks at Pozzo.) Think, pig! (Pause. Lucky begins to dance.) Stop! (Lucky stops.) Forward! (Lucky advances.) Stop! (Lucky stops.) Think!
Silence.
LUCKY:
On the other hand with regard to‚Äî
POZZO:
Stop! (Lucky stops.) Back! (Lucky moves back.) Stop! (Lucky stops.) Turn! (Lucky turns towards auditorium.) Think!
During Lucky's tirade the others react as follows.
1) Vladimir and Estragon all attention, Pozzo dejected and disgusted.
2) Vladimir and Estragon begin to protest, Pozzo's sufferings increase.
3) Vladimir and Estragon attentive again, Pozzo more and more agitated and groaning.
4) Vladimir and Estragon protest violently. Pozzo jumps up, pulls on the rope. General outcry. Lucky pulls on the rope, staggers, shouts his text. All three throw themselves on Lucky who struggles and shouts his text.

LUCKY:
Given the existence as uttered forth in the public works of Puncher and Wattmann of a personal God quaquaquaqua with white beard quaquaquaqua outside time without extension who from the heights of divine apathia divine athambia divine aphasia loves us dearly with some exceptions for reasons unknown but time will tell and suffers like the divine Miranda with those who for reasons unknown but time will tell are plunged in torment plunged in fire whose fire flames if that continues and who can doubt it will fire the firmament that is to say blast hell to heaven so blue still and calm so calm with a calm which even though intermittent is better than nothing but not so fast and considering what is more that as a result of the labors left unfinished crowned by the Acacacacademy of Anthropopopometry of Essy-in-Possy of Testew and Cunard it is established beyond all doubt all other doubt than that which clings to the labors of men that as a result of the labors unfinished of Testew and Cunnard it is established as hereinafter but not so fast for reasons unknown that as a result of the public works of Puncher and Wattmann it is established beyond all doubt that in view of the labors of Fartov and Belcher left unfinished for reasons unknown of Testew and Cunard left unfinished it is established what many deny that man in Possy of Testew and Cunard that man in Essy that man in short that man in brief in spite of the strides of alimentation and defecation wastes and pines wastes and pines and concurrently simultaneously what is more for reasons unknown in spite of the strides of physical culture the practice of sports such as tennis football running cycling swimming flying floating riding gliding conating camogie skating tennis of all kinds dying flying sports of all sorts autumn summer winter winter tennis of all kinds hockey of all sorts penicillin and succedanea in a word I resume flying gliding golf over nine and eighteen holes tennis of all sorts in a word for reasons unknown in Feckham Peckham Fulham Clapham namely concurrently simultaneously what is more for reasons unknown but time will tell fades away I resume Fulham Clapham in a word the dead loss per head since the death of Bishop Berkeley being to the tune of one inch four ounce per head approximately by and large more or less to the nearest decimal good measure round figures stark naked in the stockinged feet in Connemara in a word for reasons unknown no matter what matter the facts are there and considering what is more much more grave that in the light of the labors lost of Steinweg and Peterman it appears what is more much more grave that in the light the light the light of the labors lost of Steinweg and Peterman that in the plains in the mountains by the seas by the rivers running water running fire the air is the same and then the earth namely the air and then the earth in the great cold the great dark the air and the earth abode of stones in the great cold alas alas in the year of their Lord six hundred and something the air the earth the sea the earth abode of stones in the great deeps the great cold on sea on land and in the air I resume for reasons unknown in spite of the tennis the facts are there but time will tell I resume alas alas on on in short in fine on on abode of stones who can doubt it I resume but not so fast I resume the skull fading fading fading and concurrently simultaneously what is more for reasons unknown in spite of the tennis on on the beard the flames the tears the stones so blue so calm alas alas on on the skull the skull the skull the skull in Connemara in spite of the tennis the labors abandoned left unfinished graver still abode of stones in a word I resume alas alas abandoned unfinished the skull the skull in Connemara in spite of the tennis the skull alas the stones Cunard (mƒôl√©e, final vociferations)
#

                                                Image from timil.com
. . . tennis . . . the stones . . . so calm . . . Cunard . . . unfinished . . .
POZZO:
His hat!
Vladimir seizes Lucky's hat. Silence of Lucky. He falls. Silence. Panting of the victors.
ESTRAGON:
Avenged!
Vladimir examines the hat, peers inside it.
POZZO:
Give me that! (He snatches the hat from Vladimir, throws it on the ground, tramples on it.) There's an end to his thinking!
VLADIMIR:
But will he be able to walk?
POZZO:
Walk or crawl! (He kicks Lucky.) Up pig!
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps he's dead.
VLADIMIR:
You'll kill him.
POZZO:
Up scum! (He jerks the rope.) Help me!
VLADIMIR:
How?
POZZO:
Raise him up!
Vladimir and Estragon hoist Lucky to his feet, support him an instant, then let him go. He falls.
ESTRAGON:
He's doing it on purpose!
POZZO:
You must hold him. (Pause.) Come on, come on, raise him up.
ESTRAGON:
To hell with him!
VLADIMIR:
Come on, once more.
ESTRAGON:
What does he take us for?
They raise Lucky, hold him up.
POZZO:
Don't let him go! (Vladimir and Estragon totter.) Don't move! (Pozzo fetches bag and basket and brings them towards Lucky.) Hold him tight! (He puts the bag in Lucky's hand. Lucky drops it immediately.) Don't let him go! (He puts back the bag in Lucky's hand. Gradually, at the feel of the bag, Lucky recovers his senses and his fingers finally close round the handle.) Hold him tight! (As before with basket.) #

Now! You can let him go. (Vladimir and Estragon move away from Lucky who totters, reels, sags, but succeeds in remaining on his feet, bag and basket in his hands. Pozzo steps back, cracks his whip.) Forward! (Lucky totters forward.) Back! (Lucky totters back.) Turn! (Lucky turns.) Done it! He can walk. (Turning to Vladimir and Estragon.) Thank you, gentlemen, and let me . . . (he fumbles in his pockets) . . . let me wish you . . . (fumbles) . . . wish you . . . (fumbles) . . . what have I done with my watch? (Fumbles.) A genuine half-hunter, gentlemen, with deadbeat escapement! (Sobbing.) Twas my granpa gave it to me! (He searches on the ground, Vladimir and Estragon likewise. Pozzo turns over with his foot the remains of Lucky's hat.) Well now isn't that just‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps it's in your fob.
POZZO:
Wait! (He doubles up in an attempt to apply his ear to his stomach, listens. Silence.) I hear nothing. (He beckons them to approach, Vladimir and Estragon go over to him, bend over his stomach.) Surely one should hear the tick-tick.
VLADIMIR:
Silence!
All listen, bent double. #

ESTRAGON:
I hear something.
POZZO:
Where?
VLADIMIR:
It's the heart.
POZZO:
(disappointed). Damnation!
VLADIMIR:
Silence!
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps it has stopped.
They straighten up.
POZZO:
Which of you smells so bad?
ESTRAGON:
He has stinking breath and I have stinking feet.
POZZO:
I must go.
ESTRAGON:
And your half-hunter?
POZZO:
I must have left it at the manor.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Then adieu.
POZZO:
Adieu.
VLADIMIR:
Adieu.
POZZO:
Adieu.
Silence. No one moves.
VLADIMIR:
Adieu.
POZZO:
Adieu.
ESTRAGON:
Adieu.
Silence.
POZZO:
And thank you.
VLADIMIR:
Thank you.
POZZO:
Not at all.
ESTRAGON:
Yes yes.
POZZO:
No no.
VLADIMIR:
Yes yes.
ESTRAGON:
No no.
Silence.
POZZO:
I don't seem to be able . . . (long hesitation) . . . to depart.
ESTRAGON:
Such is life.
Pozzo turns, moves away from Lucky towards the wings, paying out the rope as he goes.
VLADIMIR:
You're going the wrong way.
POZZO:
I need a running start. (Having come to the end of the rope, i.e., off stage, he stops, turns and cries.) Stand back! (Vladimir and Estragon stand back, look towards Pozzo. Crack of whip.) On! On!
ESTRAGON:
On!
VLADIMIR:
On!
Lucky moves off.
POZZO:
Faster! (He appears, crosses the stage preceded by Lucky. Vladimir and Estragon wave their hats. Exit Lucky.) On! On! (On the point of disappearing in his turn he stops and turns. The rope tautens. Noise of Lucky falling off.) Stool! (Vladimir fetches stool and gives it to Pozzo who throws it to Lucky.) Adieu!
VLADIMIR and ESTRAGON:
(waving). Adieu! Adieu!
POZZO:
Up! Pig! (Noise of Lucky getting up.) On! (Exit Pozzo.) Faster! On! Adieu! Pig! Yip! Adieu!
Long silence.
VLADIMIR:
That passed the time.
ESTRAGON:
It would have passed in any case.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but not so rapidly.
Pause.
ESTRAGON:
What do we do now?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know.
ESTRAGON:
Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
(despairingly). Ah!
Pause.
VLADIMIR:
How they've changed!
ESTRAGON:
Who?
VLADIMIR:
Those two.
ESTRAGON:
That's the idea, let's make a little conversation.
VLADIMIR:
Haven't they?
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
Changed.
ESTRAGON:
Very likely. They all change. Only we can't.
VLADIMIR:
Likely! It's certain. Didn't you see them?
ESTRAGON:
I suppose I did. But I don't know them.
VLADIMIR:
Yes you do know them.
ESTRAGON:
No I don't know them.
VLADIMIR:
We know them, I tell you. You forget everything. (Pause. To himself.) Unless they're not the same . . .
ESTRAGON:
Why didn't they recognize us then?
VLADIMIR:
That means nothing. I too pretended not to recognize them. And then nobody ever recognizes us.
ESTRAGON:
Forget it. What we need‚Äì Ow! (Vladimir does not react.) Ow!
VLADIMIR:
(to himself). Unless they're not the same . . .
ESTRAGON:
Didi! It's the other foot!
He goes hobbling towards the mound.
VLADIMIR:
Unless they're not the same . . .
BOY:
(off). Mister!
Estragon halts. Both look towards the voice.
ESTRAGON:
Off we go again.
VLADIMIR:
Approach, my child.
Enter Boy, timidly. He halts.
BOY:
Mister Albert . . . ?
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
ESTRAGON:
What do you want?
VLADIMIR:
Approach!
The Boy does not move.
ESTRAGON:
(forcibly). Approach when you're told, can't you?
The Boy advances timidly, halts.
VLADIMIR:
What is it?
BOY:
Mr. Godot . . .
VLADIMIR:
Obviously . . . (Pause.) Approach.
ESTRAGON:
(violently). Will you approach! (The Boy advances timidly.) What kept you so late?
VLADIMIR:
You have a message from Mr. Godot?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Well, what is it?
ESTRAGON:
What kept you so late?
The Boy looks at them in turn, not knowing to which he should reply.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). Let him alone.
ESTRAGON:
(violently). You let me alone. (Advancing, to the Boy.) Do you know what time it is?
BOY:
(recoiling). It's not my fault, Sir.
ESTRAGON:
And whose is it? Mine?
BOY:
I was afraid, Sir.
ESTRAGON:
Afraid of what? Of us? (Pause.) Answer me!
VLADIMIR:
I know what it is, he was afraid of the others.
ESTRAGON:
How long have you been here?
BOY:
A good while, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
You were afraid of the whip?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
The roars?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
The two big men.
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Do you know them?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Are you a native of these parts? (Silence.) Do you belong to these parts?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
ESTRAGON:
That's all a pack of lies. (Shaking the Boy by the arm.) Tell us the truth!
BOY:
(trembling). But it is the truth, Sir!
VLADIMIR:
Will you let him alone! What's the matter with you? #

(Estragon releases the Boy, moves away, covering his face with his hands. Vladimir and the Boy observe him. Estragon drops his hands. His face is convulsed.) What's the matter with you?
ESTRAGON:
I'm unhappy.
VLADIMIR:
Not really! Since when?
ESTRAGON:
I'd forgotten.
VLADIMIR:
Extraordinary the tricks that memory plays! (Estragon tries to speak, renounces, limps to his place, sits down and begins to take off his boots. To Boy.) Well?
BOY:
Mr. Godot‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
I've seen you before, haven't I?
BOY:
I don't know, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
You don't know me?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
It wasn't you came yesterday?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
This is your first time?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Words words. (Pause.) Speak.
BOY:
(in a rush). Mr. Godot told me to tell you he won't come this evening but surely tomorrow.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Is that all?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
You work for Mr. Godot?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
What do you do?
BOY:
I mind the goats, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Is he good to you?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
He doesn't beat you?
BOY:
No Sir, not me.
VLADIMIR:
Whom does he beat?
BOY:
He beats my brother, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Ah, you have a brother?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
What does he do?
BOY:
He minds the sheep, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
And why doesn't he beat you?
BOY:
I don't know, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
He must be fond of you.
BOY:
I don't know, Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Does he give you enough to eat? (The Boy hesitates.) Does he feed you well?
BOY:
Fairly well, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
You're not unhappy? (The Boy hesitates.) Do you hear me?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Well?
BOY:
I don't know, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
You don't know if you're unhappy or not?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
You're as bad as myself. (Silence.) Where do you sleep?
BOY:
In the loft, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
With your brother?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
In the hay?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
All right, you may go.
BOY:
What am I to tell Mr. Godot, Sir?
VLADIMIR:
Tell him . . . (he hesitates) . . . tell him you saw us. (Pause.) You did see us, didn't you?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
He steps back, hesitates, turns and exit running. The light suddenly fails. In a moment it is night. The moon rises at back, mounts in the sky, stands still, shedding a pale light on the scene.
VLADIMIR:
At last! (Estragon gets up and goes towards Vladimir, a boot in each hand. He puts them down at edge of stage, straightens and contemplates the moon.) #

What are you doing?
ESTRAGON:
Pale for weariness.
VLADIMIR:
Eh?
ESTRAGON:
Of climbing heaven and gazing on the likes of us.
VLADIMIR:
Your boots, what are you doing with your boots?
ESTRAGON:
(turning to look at the boots). I'm leaving them there. (Pause.) Another will come, just as . . . as . . . as me, but with smaller feet, and they'll make him happy.
VLADIMIR:
But you can't go barefoot!
ESTRAGON:
Christ did.
VLADIMIR:
Christ! What has Christ got to do with it. You're not going to compare yourself to Christ!
ESTRAGON:
All my life I've compared myself to him.
VLADIMIR:
But where he lived it was warm, it was dry!
ESTRAGON:
Yes. And they crucified quick.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
We've nothing more to do here.
ESTRAGON:
Nor anywhere else.
VLADIMIR:
Ah Gogo, don't go on like that. Tomorrow everything will be better.
ESTRAGON:
How do you make that out?
VLADIMIR:
Did you not hear what the child said?
ESTRAGON:
No.
VLADIMIR:
He said that Godot was sure to come tomorrow. (Pause.) What do you say to that?
ESTRAGON:
Then all we have to do is to wait on here.
VLADIMIR:
Are you mad? We must take cover. (He takes Estragon by the arm.) Come on.
He draws Estragon after him. Estragon yields, then resists. They halt.
ESTRAGON:
(looking at the tree). Pity we haven't got a bit of rope.
VLADIMIR:
Come on. It's cold.
He draws Estragon after him. As before.
ESTRAGON:
Remind me to bring a bit of rope tomorrow.
VLADIMIR:
Yes. Come on.
He draws him after him. As before.
ESTRAGON:
How long have we been together all the time now?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know. Fifty years maybe.
ESTRAGON:
Do you remember the day I threw myself into the Rhone?
VLADIMIR:
We were grape harvesting.
ESTRAGON:
You fished me out.
VLADIMIR:
That's all dead and buried.
ESTRAGON:
My clothes dried in the sun.
VLADIMIR:
There's no good harking back on that. Come on.
He draws him after him. As before.
ESTRAGON:
Wait!
VLADIMIR:
I'm cold!
ESTRAGON:
Wait! (He moves away from Vladimir.) I sometimes wonder if we wouldn't have been better off alone, each one for himself. (He crosses the stage and sits down on the mound.) We weren't made for the same road.
VLADIMIR:
(without anger). It's not certain.
ESTRAGON:
No, nothing is certain.
Vladimir slowly crosses the stage and sits down beside Estragon. #

VLADIMIR:
We can still part, if you think it would be better.
ESTRAGON:
It's not worthwhile now.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
No, it's not worthwhile now.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Well, shall we go?
VLADIMIR:
Yes, let's go.
They do not move.

Curtain.

Next day. Same time.


Same place.




Estragon's boots front center, heels together, toes splayed. #

Lucky's hat at same place.
The tree has four or five leaves.
Enter Vladimir agitatedly. He halts and looks long at the tree, then suddenly begins to move feverishly about the stage. He halts before the boots, picks one up, examines it, sniffs it, manifests disgust, puts it back carefully. Comes and goes. Halts extreme right and gazes into distance off, shading his eyes with his hand. Comes and goes. Halts extreme left, as before. Comes and goes. Halts suddenly and begins to sing loudly.
VLADIMIR:

A dog came in‚Äì
Having begun too high he stops, clears his throat, resumes:
A dog came in the kitchen
And stole a crust of bread.
Then cook up with a ladle
And beat him till he was dead.

Then all the dogs came running
And dug the dog a tomb‚Äì
He stops, broods, resumes:
Then all the dogs came running
And dug the dog a tomb
And wrote upon the tombstone
For the eyes of dogs to come:

A dog came in the kitchen
And stole a crust of bread.
Then cook up with a ladle
And beat him till he was dead.

Then all the dogs came running
And dug the dog a tomb‚Äì
He stops, broods, resumes:
Then all the dogs came running
And dug the dog a tomb‚Äì
He stops, broods. Softly.
And dug the dog a tomb . . .
He remains a moment silent and motionless, then begins to move feverishly about the stage. He halts before the tree, comes and goes, before the boots, comes and goes, halts extreme right, gazes into distance, extreme left, gazes into distance. Enter Estragon right, barefoot, head bowed. He slowly crosses the stage. Vladimir turns and sees him.
VLADIMIR:
You again! (Estragon halts but does not raise his head. Vladimir goes towards him.) Come here till I embrace you.
ESTRAGON:
Don't touch me!
Vladimir holds back, pained.
VLADIMIR:
Do you want me to go away? (Pause.) Gogo! (Pause. Vladimir observes him attentively.) Did they beat you? (Pause.) Gogo! (Estragon remains silent, head bowed.) Where did you spend the night?
ESTRAGON:
Don't touch me! Don't question me! Don't speak to me! Stay with me!
VLADIMIR:
Did I ever leave you?
ESTRAGON:
You let me go.
VLADIMIR:
Look at me. (Estragon does not raise his head. Violently.) Will you look at me!
Estragon raises his head. They look long at each other, then suddenly embrace, clapping each other on the back. End of the embrace. Estragon, no longer supported, almost falls.
ESTRAGON:
What a day!
VLADIMIR:
Who beat you? Tell me.
ESTRAGON:
Another day done with.
VLADIMIR:
Not yet.
ESTRAGON:
For me it's over and done with, no matter what happens. (Silence.) I heard you singing.
VLADIMIR:
That's right, I remember.
ESTRAGON:
That finished me. I said to myself, He's all alone, he thinks I'm gone for ever, and he sings.
VLADIMIR:
One is not master of one's moods. All day I've felt in great form. (Pause.) I didn't get up in the night, not once!
ESTRAGON:
(sadly). You see, you piss better when I'm not there.
VLADIMIR:
I missed you . . . and at the same time I was happy. Isn't that a strange thing?
ESTRAGON:
(shocked). Happy?
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps it's not quite the right word.
ESTRAGON:
And now?
VLADIMIR:
Now? . . . (Joyous.) There you are again . . . (Indifferent.) There we are again. . . (Gloomy.) There I am again.
ESTRAGON:
You see, you feel worse when I'm with you. I feel better alone too.
VLADIMIR:
(vexed). Then why do you always come crawling back?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
No, but I do. It's because you don't know how to defend yourself. I wouldn't have let them beat you.
ESTRAGON:
You couldn't have stopped them.
VLADIMIR:
Why not?
ESTRAGON:
There was ten of them.
VLADIMIR:
No, I mean before they beat you. I would have stopped you from doing whatever it was you were doing.
ESTRAGON:
I wasn't doing anything.
VLADIMIR:
Then why did they beat you?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
Ah no, Gogo, the truth is there are things that escape you that don't escape me, you must feel it yourself.
ESTRAGON:
I tell you I wasn't doing anything.
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps you weren't. But it's the way of doing it that counts, the way of doing it, if you want to go on living.
ESTRAGON:
I wasn't doing anything.
VLADIMIR:
You must be happy too, deep down, if you only knew it.
ESTRAGON:
Happy about what?
VLADIMIR:
To be back with me again.
ESTRAGON:
Would you say so?
VLADIMIR:
Say you are, even if it's not true.
ESTRAGON:
What am I to say?
VLADIMIR:
Say, I am happy.
ESTRAGON:
I am happy.
VLADIMIR:
So am I.
ESTRAGON:
So am I.
VLADIMIR:
We are happy.
ESTRAGON:
We are happy. (Silence.) What do we do now, now that we are happy?
VLADIMIR:
Wait for Godot. (Estragon groans. Silence.) Things have changed here since yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
And if he doesn't come?
VLADIMIR:
(after a moment of bewilderment). We'll see when the time comes. (Pause.) I was saying that things have changed here since yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
Everything oozes.
VLADIMIR:
Look at the tree.
ESTRAGON:
It's never the same pus from one second to the next.
VLADIMIR:
The tree, look at the tree.
Estragon looks at the tree.
ESTRAGON:
Was it not there yesterday?
VLADIMIR:
Yes of course it was there. Do you not remember? We nearly hanged ourselves from it. But you wouldn't. Do you not remember?
ESTRAGON:
You dreamt it.
VLADIMIR:
Is it possible you've forgotten already?
ESTRAGON:
That's the way I am. Either I forget immediately or I never forget.
VLADIMIR:
And Pozzo and Lucky, have you forgotten them too?
ESTRAGON:
Pozzo and Lucky?
VLADIMIR:
He's forgotten everything!
ESTRAGON:
I remember a lunatic who kicked the shins off me. Then he played the fool.
VLADIMIR:
That was Lucky.
ESTRAGON:
I remember that. But when was it?
VLADIMIR:
And his keeper, do you not remember him?
ESTRAGON:
He gave me a bone.
VLADIMIR:
That was Pozzo.
ESTRAGON:
And all that was yesterday, you say?
VLADIMIR:
Yes of course it was yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
And here where we are now?
VLADIMIR:
Where else do you think? Do you not recognize the place?
ESTRAGON:
(suddenly furious). Recognize! What is there to recognize? All my lousy life I've crawled about in the mud! And you talk to me about scenery! (Looking wildly about him.) Look at this muckheap! I've never stirred from it!
VLADIMIR:
Calm yourself, calm yourself.
ESTRAGON:
You and your landscapes! Tell me about the worms!
VLADIMIR:
All the same, you can't tell me that this (gesture) bears any resemblance to . . . (he hesitates) . . . to the Macon country for example. You can't deny there's a big difference.
ESTRAGON:
The Macon country! Who's talking to you about the Macon country?
VLADIMIR:
But you were there yourself, in the Macon country.
ESTRAGON:
No I was never in the Macon country! I've puked my puke of a life away here, I tell you! Here! In the Cackon country!
VLADIMIR:
But we were there together, I could swear to it! Picking grapes for a man called . . . (he snaps his fingers) . . . can't think of the name of the man, at a place called . . . (snaps his fingers) . . . can't think of the name of the place, do you not remember?
ESTRAGON:
(a little calmer). It's possible. I didn't notice anything.
VLADIMIR:
But down there everything is red!
ESTRAGON:
(exasperated). I didn't notice anything, I tell you!
Silence. Vladimir sighs deeply.
VLADIMIR:
You're a hard man to get on with, Gogo.
ESTRAGON:
It'd be better if we parted.
VLADIMIR:
You always say that and you always come crawling back.
ESTRAGON:
The best thing would be to kill me, like the other.
VLADIMIR:
What other? (Pause.) What other?
ESTRAGON:
Like billions of others.
VLADIMIR:
(sententious). To every man his little cross. (He sighs.) Till he dies. (Afterthought.) And is forgotten.
ESTRAGON:
In the meantime let us try and converse calmly, since we are incapable of keeping silent.
VLADIMIR:
You're right, we're inexhaustible.
ESTRAGON:
It's so we won't think.
VLADIMIR:
We have that excuse.
ESTRAGON:
It's so we won't hear.
VLADIMIR:
We have our reasons.
ESTRAGON:
All the dead voices.
VLADIMIR:
They make a noise like wings.
ESTRAGON:
Like leaves.
VLADIMIR:
Like sand.
ESTRAGON:
Like leaves.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
They all speak at once.
ESTRAGON:
Each one to itself.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Rather they whisper.
ESTRAGON:
They rustle.
VLADIMIR:
They murmur.
ESTRAGON:
They rustle.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
What do they say?
ESTRAGON:
They talk about their lives.
VLADIMIR:
To have lived is not enough for them.
ESTRAGON:
They have to talk about it.
VLADIMIR:
To be dead is not enough for them.
ESTRAGON:
It is not sufficient.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
They make a noise like feathers.
ESTRAGON:
Like leaves.
VLADIMIR:
Likes ashes.
ESTRAGON:
Like leaves.
Long silence.
VLADIMIR:
Say something!
ESTRAGON:
I'm trying.
Long silence.
VLADIMIR:
(in anguish). Say anything at all!
ESTRAGON:
What do we do now?
VLADIMIR:
Wait for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah!
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
This is awful!
ESTRAGON:
Sing something.
VLADIMIR:
No no! (He reflects.) We could start all over again perhaps.
ESTRAGON:
That should be easy.
VLADIMIR:
It's the start that's difficult.
ESTRAGON:
You can start from anything.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but you have to decide.
ESTRAGON:
True.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Help me!
ESTRAGON:
I'm trying.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
When you seek you hear.
ESTRAGON:
You do.
VLADIMIR:
That prevents you from finding.
ESTRAGON:
It does.
VLADIMIR:
That prevents you from thinking.
ESTRAGON:
You think all the same.
VLADIMIR:
No no, it's impossible.
ESTRAGON:
That's the idea, let's contradict each another.
VLADIMIR:
Impossible.
ESTRAGON:
You think so?
VLADIMIR:
We're in no danger of ever thinking any more.
ESTRAGON:
Then what are we complaining about?
VLADIMIR:
Thinking is not the worst.
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps not. But at least there's that.
VLADIMIR:
That what?
ESTRAGON:
That's the idea, let's ask each other questions.
VLADIMIR:
What do you mean, at least there's that?
ESTRAGON:
That much less misery.
VLADIMIR:
True.
ESTRAGON:
Well? If we gave thanks for our mercies?
VLADIMIR:
What is terrible is to have thought.
ESTRAGON:
But did that ever happen to us?
VLADIMIR:
Where are all these corpses from?
ESTRAGON:
These skeletons.
VLADIMIR:
Tell me that.
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
We must have thought a little.
ESTRAGON:
At the very beginning.
VLADIMIR:
A charnel-house! A charnel-house!
ESTRAGON:
You don't have to look.
VLADIMIR:
You can't help looking.
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
Try as one may.
ESTRAGON:
I beg your pardon?
VLADIMIR:
Try as one may.
ESTRAGON:
We should turn resolutely towards Nature.
VLADIMIR:
We've tried that.
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
Oh it's not the worst, I know.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
To have thought.
ESTRAGON:
Obviously.
VLADIMIR:
But we could have done without it.
ESTRAGON:
Que voulez-vous?
VLADIMIR:
I beg your pardon?
ESTRAGON:
Que voulez-vouz.
VLADIMIR:
Ah! que voulez-vous. Exactly.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
That wasn't such a bad little canter.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but now we'll have to find something else.
ESTRAGON:
Let me see.
He takes off his hat, concentrates.
VLADIMIR:
Let me see. (He takes off his hat, concentrates. Long silence.) Ah!
They put on their hats, relax.
ESTRAGON:
Well?
VLADIMIR:
What was I saying, we could go on from there.
ESTRAGON:
What were you saying when?
VLADIMIR:
At the very beginning.
ESTRAGON:
The very beginning of WHAT?
VLADIMIR:
This evening . . . I was saying . . . I was saying . . .
ESTRAGON:
I'm not a historian.
VLADIMIR:
Wait . . . we embraced . . . we were happy . . . happy . . . what do we do now that we're happy . . . go on waiting . . . waiting . . . let me think . . . it's coming . . . go on waiting . . . now that we're happy . . . let me see . . . ah! The tree!
ESTRAGON:
The tree?
VLADIMIR:
Do you not remember?
ESTRAGON:
I'm tired.
VLADIMIR:
Look at it.
They look at the tree.
ESTRAGON:
I see nothing.
VLADIMIR:
But yesterday evening it was all black and bare. And now it's covered with leaves.
ESTRAGON:
Leaves?
VLADIMIR:
In a single night.
ESTRAGON:
It must be the Spring.
VLADIMIR:
But in a single night!
ESTRAGON:
I tell you we weren't here yesterday. Another of your nightmares.
VLADIMIR:
And where were we yesterday evening according to you?
ESTRAGON:
How would I know? In another compartment. There's no lack of void.
VLADIMIR:
(sure of himself). Good. We weren't here yesterday evening. Now what did we do yesterday evening?
ESTRAGON:
Do?
VLADIMIR:
Try and remember.
ESTRAGON:
Do . . . I suppose we blathered.
VLADIMIR:
(controlling himself). About what?
ESTRAGON:
Oh . . . this and that I suppose, nothing in particular. (With assurance.) Yes, now I remember, yesterday evening we spent blathering about nothing in particular. That's been going on now for half a century.
VLADIMIR:
You don't remember any fact, any circumstance?
ESTRAGON:
(weary). Don't torment me, Didi.
VLADIMIR:
The sun. The moon. Do you not remember?
ESTRAGON:
They must have been there, as usual.
VLADIMIR:
You didn't notice anything out of the ordinary?
ESTRAGON:
Alas!
VLADIMIR:
And Pozzo? And Lucky?
ESTRAGON:
Pozzo?
VLADIMIR:
The bones.
ESTRAGON:
They were like fishbones.
VLADIMIR:
It was Pozzo gave them to you.
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
And the kick.
ESTRAGON:
That's right, someone gave me a kick.
VLADIMIR:
It was Lucky gave it to you.
ESTRAGON:
And all that was yesterday?
VLADIMIR:
Show me your leg.
ESTRAGON:
Which?
VLADIMIR:
Both. Pull up your trousers. (Estragon gives a leg to Vladimir, staggers. Vladimir takes the leg. They stagger.) Pull up your trousers.
ESTRAGON:
I can't.
Vladimir pulls up the trousers, looks at the leg, lets it go. Estragon almost falls.
VLADIMIR:
The other. (Estragon gives the same leg.) The other, pig! (Estragon gives the other leg. Triumphantly.) There's the wound! Beginning to fester!
ESTRAGON:
And what about it?
VLADIMIR:
(letting go the leg). Where are your boots?
ESTRAGON:
I must have thrown them away.
VLADIMIR:
When?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
Why?
ESTRAGON:
(exasperated). I don't know why I don't know!
VLADIMIR:
No, I mean why did you throw them away?
ESTRAGON:
(exasperated). Because they were hurting me!
VLADIMIR:
(triumphantly, pointing to the boots). There they are! (Estragon looks at the boots.) At the very spot where you left them yesterday!
Estragon goes towards the boots, inspects them closely.
ESTRAGON:
They're not mine.
VLADIMIR:
(stupefied). Not yours!
ESTRAGON:
Mine were black. These are brown.
VLADIMIR:
You're sure yours were black?
ESTRAGON:
Well they were a kind of gray.
VLADIMIR:
And these are brown. Show me.
ESTRAGON:
(picking up a boot). Well they're a kind of green.
VLADIMIR:
Show me. (Estragon hands him the boot. Vladimir inspects it, throws it down angrily.) Well of all the‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
You see, all that's a lot of bloody‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Ah! I see what it is. Yes, I see what's happened.
ESTRAGON:
All that's a lot of bloody‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
It's elementary. Someone came and took yours and left you his.
ESTRAGON:
Why?
VLADIMIR:
His were too tight for him, so he took yours.
ESTRAGON:
But mine were too tight.
VLADIMIR:
For you. Not for him.
ESTRAGON:
(having tried in vain to work it out). I'm tired! (Pause.) Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah! (Pause. Despairing.) What'll we do, what'll we do!
VLADIMIR:
There's nothing we can do.
ESTRAGON:
But I can't go on like this!
VLADIMIR:
Would you like a radish?
ESTRAGON:
Is that all there is?
VLADIMIR:
There are radishes and turnips.
ESTRAGON:
Are there no carrots?
VLADIMIR:
No. Anyway you overdo it with your carrots.
ESTRAGON:
Then give me a radish. (Vladimir fumbles in his pockets, finds nothing but turnips, finally brings out a radish and hands it to Estragon who examines it, sniffs it.) It's black!
VLADIMIR:
It's a radish.
ESTRAGON:
I only like the pink ones, you know that!
VLADIMIR:
Then you don't want it?
ESTRAGON:
I only like the pink ones!
VLADIMIR:
Then give it back to me.
Estragon gives it back.
ESTRAGON:
I'll go and get a carrot.
He does not move.
VLADIMIR:
This is becoming really insignificant.
ESTRAGON:
Not enough.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
What about trying them.
ESTRAGON:
I've tried everything.
VLADIMIR:
No, I mean the boots.
ESTRAGON:
Would that be a good thing?
VLADIMIR:
It'd pass the time. (Estragon hesitates.) I assure you, it'd be an occupation.
ESTRAGON:
A relaxation.
VLADIMIR:
A recreation.
ESTRAGON:
A relaxation.
VLADIMIR:
Try.
ESTRAGON:
You'll help me?
VLADIMIR:
I will of course.
ESTRAGON:
We don't manage too badly, eh Didi, between the two of us?
VLADIMIR:
Yes yes. Come on, we'll try the left first.
ESTRAGON:
We always find something, eh Didi, to give us the impression we exist?
VLADIMIR:
(impatiently). Yes yes, we're magicians. But let us persevere in what we have resolved, before we forget. (He picks up a boot.) Come on, give me your foot. (Estragon raises his foot.) The other, hog! (Estragon raises the other foot.) Higher! #

(Wreathed together they stagger about the stage. Vladimir succeeds finally in getting on the boot.) Try and walk. (Estragon walks.) Well?
ESTRAGON:
It fits.
VLADIMIR:
(taking string from his pocket). We'll try and lace it.
ESTRAGON:
(vehemently). No no, no laces, no laces!
VLADIMIR:
You'll be sorry. Let's try the other. (As before.) Well?
ESTRAGON:
(grudgingly). It fits too.
VLADIMIR:
They don't hurt you?
ESTRAGON:
Not yet.
VLADIMIR:
Then you can keep them.
ESTRAGON:
They're too big.
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps you'll have socks some day.
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
Then you'll keep them?
ESTRAGON:
That's enough about these boots.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
(violently). Enough! (Silence.) I suppose I might as well sit down.
He looks for a place to sit down, then goes and sits down on the mound.
VLADIMIR:
That's where you were sitting yesterday evening.
ESTRAGON:
If I could only sleep.
VLADIMIR:
Yesterday you slept.
ESTRAGON:
I'll try.
He resumes his foetal posture, his head between his knees.
VLADIMIR:
Wait. (He goes over and sits down beside Estragon and begins to sing in a loud voice.)
Bye bye bye bye
Bye bye‚Äì #



ESTRAGON:
(looking up angrily). Not so loud!
VLADIMIR:
(softly).
Bye bye bye bye
Bye bye bye bye
Bye bye bye bye
Bye bye . . .
Estragon sleeps. Vladimir gets up softly, takes off his coat and lays it across Estragon's shoulders, then starts walking up and down, swinging his arms to keep himself warm. Estragon wakes with a start, jumps up, casts about wildly. Vladimir runs to him, puts his arms around him.) There . . . there . . . Didi is here . . . don't be afraid . . .
ESTRAGON:
Ah!
VLADIMIR:
There . . . there . . . it's all over.
ESTRAGON:
I was falling‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
It's all over, it's all over.
ESTRAGON:
I was on top of a‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Don't tell me! Come, we'll walk it off.
He takes Estragon by the arm and walks him up and down until Estragon refuses to go any further.
ESTRAGON:
That's enough. I'm tired.
VLADIMIR:
You'd rather be stuck there doing nothing?
ESTRAGON:
Yes.
VLADIMIR:
Please yourself.
He releases Estragon, picks up his coat and puts it on.
ESTRAGON:
Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah! (Vladimir walks up and down.) Can you not stay still?
VLADIMIR:
I'm cold.
ESTRAGON:
We came too soon.
VLADIMIR:
It's always at nightfall.
ESTRAGON:
But night doesn't fall.
VLADIMIR:
It'll fall all of a sudden, like yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
Then it'll be night.
VLADIMIR:
And we can go.
ESTRAGON:
Then it'll be day again. (Pause. Despairing.) What'll we do, what'll we do!
VLADIMIR:
(halting, violently). Will you stop whining! I've had about my bellyful of your lamentations!
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
(seeing Lucky's hat). Well!
ESTRAGON:
Farewell.
VLADIMIR:
Lucky's hat. (He goes towards it.) I've been here an hour and never saw it. (Very pleased.) Fine!
ESTRAGON:
You'll never see me again.
VLADIMIR:
I knew it was the right place. Now our troubles are over. (He picks up the hat, contemplates it, straightens it.) Must have been a very fine hat. (He puts it on in place of his own which he hands to Estragon.) Here.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
Hold that.
Estragon takes Vladimir's hat. Vladimir adjusts Lucky's hat on his head. Estragon puts on Vladimir's hat in place of his own which he hands to Vladimir. Vladimir takes Estragon's hat. Estragon adjusts Vladimir's hat on his head. Vladimir puts on Estragon's hat in place of Lucky's which he hands to Estragon. Estragon takes Lucky's hat. Vladimir adjusts Estragon's hat on his head. Estragon puts on Lucky's hat in place of Vladimir's which he hands to Vladimir. Vladimir takes his hat, Estragon adjusts Lucky's hat on his head. Vladimir puts on his hat in place of Estragon's which he hands to Estragon. Estragon takes his hat. Vladimir adjusts his hat on his head. Estragon puts on his hat in place of Lucky's which he hands to Vladimir. Vladimir takes Lucky's hat. Estragon adjusts his hat on his head. Vladimir puts on Lucky's hat in place of his own which he hands to Estragon. Estragon takes Vladimir's hat. Vladimir adjusts Lucky's hat on his head. Estragon hands Vladimir's hat back to Vladimir who takes it and hands it back to Estragon who takes it and hands it back to Vladimir who takes it and throws it down.
How does it fit me?
ESTRAGON:
How would I know?
VLADIMIR:
No, but how do I look in it?
He turns his head coquettishly to and fro, minces like a mannequin.
ESTRAGON:
Hideous.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, but not more so than usual?
ESTRAGON:
Neither more nor less.
VLADIMIR:
Then I can keep it. Mine irked me. (Pause.) How shall I say? (Pause.) It itched me.
He takes off Lucky's hat, peers into it, shakes it, knocks on the crown, puts it on again.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Will you not play?
ESTRAGON:
Play at what?
VLADIMIR:
We could play at Pozzo and Lucky.
ESTRAGON:
Never heard of it.
VLADIMIR:
I'll do Lucky, you do Pozzo. (He imitates Lucky sagging under the weight of his baggage. Estragon looks at him with stupefaction.) Go on.
ESTRAGON:
What am I to do?
VLADIMIR:
Curse me!
ESTRAGON:
(after reflection). Naughty!
VLADIMIR:
Stronger!
ESTRAGON:
Gonococcus! Spirochete!
Vladimir sways back and forth, doubled in two.
VLADIMIR:
Tell me to think.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
Say, Think, pig!
ESTRAGON:
Think, pig!
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
I can't.
ESTRAGON:
That's enough of that.
VLADIMIR:
Tell me to dance.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
Dance, hog! (He writhes. Exit Estragon left, precipitately.) I can't! (He looks up, misses Estragon.) Gogo! (He moves wildly about the stage. Enter Estragon left, panting. He hastens towards Vladimir, falls into his arms.) There you are again at last!
ESTRAGON:
I'm accursed!
VLADIMIR:
Where were you? I thought you were gone for ever.
ESTRAGON:
They're coming!
VLADIMIR:
Who?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
How many?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
(triumphantly). It's Godot! At last! Gogo! It's Godot! We're saved! Let's go and meet him! (He drags Estragon towards the wings. Estragon resists, pulls himself free, exit right.) Gogo! Come back! (Vladimir runs to extreme left, scans the horizon. Enter Estragon right, he hastens towards Vladimir, falls into his arms.) There you are again again!
ESTRAGON:
I'm in hell!
VLADIMIR:
Where were you?
ESTRAGON:
They're coming there too!
VLADIMIR:
We're surrounded! (Estragon makes a rush towards back.) Imbecile! There's no way out there. (He takes Estragon by the arm and drags him towards front. Gesture towards front.) There! Not a soul in sight! Off you go! Quick! (He pushes Estragon towards auditorium. Estragon recoils in horror.) You won't? (He contemplates auditorium.) Well I can understand that. Wait till I see. (He reflects.) Your only hope left is to disappear.
ESTRAGON:
Where?
VLADIMIR:
Behind the tree. (Estragon hesitates.) Quick! Behind the tree. (Estragon goes and crouches behind the tree, realizes he is not hidden, comes out from behind the tree.) Decidedly this tree will not have been the slightest use to us.
ESTRAGON:
(calmer). I lost my head. Forgive me. It won't happen again. Tell me what to do.
VLADIMIR:
There's nothing to do.
ESTRAGON:
You go and stand there. (He draws Vladimir to extreme right and places him with his back to the stage.) There, don't move, and watch out. (Vladimir scans horizon, screening his eyes with his hand. Estragon runs and takes up same position extreme left. They turn their heads and look at each other.) Back to back like in the good old days. (They continue to look at each other for a moment, then resume their watch. Long silence.) Do you see anything coming?
VLADIMIR:
(turning his head). What?
ESTRAGON:
(louder). Do you see anything coming?
VLADIMIR:
No.
ESTRAGON:
Nor I.
They resume their watch. Silence.
VLADIMIR:
You must have had a vision.
ESTRAGON:
(turning his head). What?
VLADIMIR:
(louder). You must have had a vision.
ESTRAGON:
No need to shout!
They resume their watch. Silence.
VLADIMIR and ESTRAGON:
(turning simultaneously). Do you‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Oh pardon!
ESTRAGON:
Carry on.
VLADIMIR:
No no, after you.
ESTRAGON:
No no, you first.
VLADIMIR:
I interrupted you.
ESTRAGON:
On the contrary.
They glare at each other angrily.
VLADIMIR:
Ceremonious ape!
ESTRAGON:
Punctilious pig!
VLADIMIR:
Finish your phrase, I tell you!
ESTRAGON:
Finish your own!
Silence. They draw closer, halt.
VLADIMIR:
Moron!
ESTRAGON:
That's the idea, let's abuse each other.
They turn, move apart, turn again and face each other.
VLADIMIR:
Moron!
ESTRAGON:
Vermin!
VLADIMIR:
Abortion!
ESTRAGON:
Morpion!
VLADIMIR:
Sewer-rat!
ESTRAGON:
Curate!
VLADIMIR:
Cretin!
ESTRAGON:
(with finality). Crritic!
VLADIMIR:
Oh!
He wilts, vanquished, and turns away.
ESTRAGON:
Now let's make it up.
VLADIMIR:
Gogo!
ESTRAGON:
Didi!
VLADIMIR:
Your hand!
ESTRAGON:
Take it!
VLADIMIR:
Come to my arms!
ESTRAGON:
Yours arms?
VLADIMIR:
My breast!
ESTRAGON:
Off we go!
They embrace. #

They separate. Silence.
VLADIMIR:
How time flies when one has fun!
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
What do we do now?
VLADIMIR:
While waiting.
ESTRAGON:
While waiting.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
We could do our exercises.
ESTRAGON:
Our movements.
VLADIMIR:
Our elevations.
ESTRAGON:
Our relaxations.
VLADIMIR:
Our elongations.
ESTRAGON:
Our relaxations.
VLADIMIR:
To warm us up.
ESTRAGON:
To calm us down.
VLADIMIR:
Off we go.
Vladimir hops from one foot to the other. Estragon imitates him.
ESTRAGON:
(stopping). That's enough. I'm tired.
VLADIMIR:
(stopping). We're not in form. What about a little deep breathing?
ESTRAGON:
I'm tired breathing.
VLADIMIR:
You're right. (Pause.) Let's just do the tree, for the balance.
ESTRAGON:
The tree?
Vladimir does the tree, staggering about on one leg.
VLADIMIR:
(stopping). Your turn.
Estragon does the tree, staggers.
ESTRAGON:
Do you think God sees me?
VLADIMIR:
You must close your eyes.
Estragon closes his eyes, staggers worse.
ESTRAGON:
(stopping, brandishing his fists, at the top of his voice.) God have pity on me!
VLADIMIR:
(vexed). And me?
ESTRAGON:
On me! On me! Pity! On me!
Enter Pozzo and Lucky. Pozzo is blind. Lucky burdened as before. Rope as before, but much shorter, so that Pozzo may follow more easily. Lucky wearing a different hat. At the sight of Vladimir and Estragon he stops short. Pozzo, continuing on his way, bumps into him.
VLADIMIR:
Gogo!
POZZO:
(clutching onto Lucky who staggers). What is it? Who is it?
Lucky falls, drops everything and brings down Pozzo with him. They lie helpless among the scattered baggage.
ESTRAGON:
Is it Godot?
VLADIMIR:
At last! (He goes towards the heap.) Reinforcements at last!
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
Is it Godot?
VLADIMIR:
We were beginning to weaken. Now we're sure to see the evening out.
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
Do you hear him?
VLADIMIR:
We are no longer alone, waiting for the night, waiting for Godot, waiting for . . . waiting. All evening we have struggled, unassisted. Now it's over. It's already tomorrow.
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
Time flows again already. The sun will set, the moon rise, and we away . . . from here.
POZZO:
Pity!
VLADIMIR:
Poor Pozzo!
ESTRAGON:
I knew it was him.
VLADIMIR:
Who?
ESTRAGON:
Godot.
VLADIMIR:
But it's not Godot.
ESTRAGON:
It's not Godot?
VLADIMIR:
It's not Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Then who is it?
VLADIMIR:
It's Pozzo.
POZZO:
Here! Here! Help me up!
VLADIMIR:
He can't get up.
ESTRAGON:
Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah!
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps he has another bone for you.
ESTRAGON:
Bone?
VLADIMIR:
Chicken. Do you not remember?
ESTRAGON:
It was him?
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
ESTRAGON:
Ask him.
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps we should help him first.
ESTRAGON:
To do what?
VLADIMIR:
To get up.
ESTRAGON:
He can't get up?
VLADIMIR:
He wants to get up.
ESTRAGON:
Then let him get up.
VLADIMIR:
He can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know.
Pozzo writhes, groans, beats the ground with his fists.
ESTRAGON:
We should ask him for the bone first. Then if he refuses we'll leave him there.
VLADIMIR:
You mean we have him at our mercy?
ESTRAGON:
Yes.
VLADIMIR:
And that we should subordinate our good offices to certain conditions?
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
That seems intelligent all right. But there's one thing I'm afraid of.
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
That Lucky might get going all of a sudden. Then we'd be ballocksed.
ESTRAGON:
Lucky?
VLADIMIR:
The one that went for you yesterday.
ESTRAGON:
I tell you there was ten of them.
VLADIMIR:
No, before that, the one that kicked you.
ESTRAGON:
Is he there?
VLADIMIR:
As large as life. (Gesture towards Lucky.) For the moment he is inert. But he might run amuck any minute.
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
And suppose we gave him a good beating, the two of us.
VLADIMIR:
You mean if we fell on him in his sleep?
ESTRAGON:
Yes.
VLADIMIR:
That seems a good idea all right. But could we do it? Is he really asleep? (Pause.) No, the best would be to take advantage of Pozzo's calling for help‚Äî
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
To help him‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
We help him?
VLADIMIR:
In anticipation of some tangible return.
ESTRAGON:
And suppose he‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
Let us not waste our time in idle discourse! (Pause. Vehemently.) Let us do something, while we have the chance! It is not every day that we are needed. Not indeed that we personally are needed. Others would meet the case equally well, if not better. To all mankind they were addressed, those cries for help still ringing in our ears! But at this place, at this moment of time, all mankind is us, whether we like it or not. Let us make the most of it, before it is too late! Let us represent worthily for once the foul brood to which a cruel fate consigned us! What do you say? (Estragon says nothing.) It is true that when with folded arms we weigh the pros and cons we are no less a credit to our species. The tiger bounds to the help of his congeners without the least reflection, or else he slinks away into the depths of the thickets. But that is not the question. What are we doing here, that is the question. And we are blessed in this, that we happen to know the answer. Yes, in this immense confusion one thing alone is clear. We are waiting for Godot to come‚Äî
ESTRAGON:
Ah!
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
Or for night to fall. (Pause.) We have kept our appointment and that's an end to that. We are not saints, but we have kept our appointment. How many people can boast as much?
ESTRAGON:
Billions.
VLADIMIR:
You think so?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
You may be right.
POZZO:
Help! #


VLADIMIR:
All I know is that the hours are long, under these conditions, and constrain us to beguile them with proceedings which ‚Äìhow shall I say‚Äì which may at first sight seem reasonable, until they become a habit. You may say it is to prevent our reason from foundering. No doubt. But has it not long been straying in the night without end of the abyssal depths? That's what I sometimes wonder. You follow my reasoning?
ESTRAGON:
(aphoristic for once). We are all born mad. Some remain so.
POZZO:
Help! I'll pay you!
ESTRAGON:
How much?
POZZO:
One hundred francs!
ESTRAGON:
It's not enough.
VLADIMIR:
I wouldn't go so far as that.
ESTRAGON:
You think it's enough?
VLADIMIR:
No, I mean so far as to assert that I was weak in the head when I came into the world. But that is not the question.
POZZO:
Two hundred!
VLADIMIR:
We wait. We are bored. (He throws up his hand.) No, don't protest, we are bored to death, there's no denying it. Good. A diversion comes along and what do we do? We let it go to waste. Come, let's get to work! (He advances towards the heap, stops in his stride.) In an instant all will vanish and we'll be alone once more, in the midst of nothingness!
He broods.
POZZO:
Two hundred!
VLADIMIR:
We're coming!
He tries to pull Pozzo to his feet, fails, tries again, stumbles, falls, tries to get up, fails.
ESTRAGON:
What's the matter with you all?
VLADIMIR:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
Don't leave me! They'll kill me!
POZZO:
Where am I?
VLADIMIR:
Gogo!
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
Help me up first, then we'll go together.
ESTRAGON:
You promise?
VLADIMIR:
I swear it!
ESTRAGON:
And we'll never come back?
VLADIMIR:
Never!
ESTRAGON:
We'll go to the Pyrenees.
VLADIMIR:
Wherever you like.
ESTRAGON:
I've always wanted to wander in the Pyrenees.
VLADIMIR:
You'll wander in them.
ESTRAGON:
(recoiling). Who farted?
VLADIMIR:
Pozzo.
POZZO:
Here! Here! Pity!
ESTRAGON:
It's revolting!
VLADIMIR:
Quick! Give me your hand!
ESTRAGON:
I'm going. (Pause. Louder.) I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
Well I suppose in the end I'll get up by myself. (He tries, fails.) In the fullness of time.
ESTRAGON:
What's the matter with you?
VLADIMIR:
Go to hell.
ESTRAGON:
Are you staying there?
VLADIMIR:
For the time being.
ESTRAGON:
Come on, get up, you'll catch a chill.
VLADIMIR:
Don't worry about me.
ESTRAGON:
Come on, Didi, don't be pig-headed!
He stretches out his hand which Vladimir makes haste to seize.
VLADIMIR:
Pull!
Estragon pulls, stumbles, falls. Long silence.
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
We've arrived.
POZZO:
Who are you?
VLADIMIR:
We are men.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Sweet mother earth!
VLADIMIR:
Can you get up?
ESTRAGON:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
Try.
ESTRAGON:
Not now, not now.
Silence.
POZZO:
What happened?
VLADIMIR:
(violently). Will you stop it, you! Pest! He can think of nothing but himself!
ESTRAGON:
What about a little snooze?
VLADIMIR:
Did you hear him? He wants to know what happened!
ESTRAGON:
Don't mind him. Sleep.
Silence.
POZZO:
Pity! Pity!
ESTRAGON:
(with a start). What is it?
VLADIMIR:
Were you asleep?
ESTRAGON:
I must have been.
VLADIMIR:
It's this bastard Pozzo at it again.
ESTRAGON:
Make him stop it. Kick him in the crotch.
VLADIMIR:
(striking Pozzo). Will you stop it! Crablouse! (Pozzo extricates himself with cries of pain and crawls away. He stops, saws the air blindly, calling for help. Vladimir, propped on his elbow, observes his retreat.) He's off! (Pozzo collapses.) He's down!
#

ESTRAGON:
What do we do now?
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps I could crawl to him.
ESTRAGON:
Don't leave me!
VLADIMIR:
Or I could call to him.
ESTRAGON:
Yes, call to him.
VLADIMIR:
Pozzo! (Silence.) Pozzo! (Silence.) No reply.
ESTRAGON:
Together.
VLADIMIR and ESTRAGON:
Pozzo! Pozzo!
VLADIMIR:
He moved.
ESTRAGON:
Are you sure his name is Pozzo?
VLADIMIR:
(alarmed). Mr. Pozzo! Come back! We won't hurt you!
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
We might try him with other names.
VLADIMIR:
I'm afraid he's dying.
ESTRAGON:
It'd be amusing.
VLADIMIR:
What'd be amusing?
ESTRAGON:
To try him with other names, one after the other. It'd pass the time. And we'd be bound to hit on the right one sooner or later.
VLADIMIR:
I tell you his name is Pozzo.
ESTRAGON:
We'll soon see. (He reflects.) Abel! Abel!
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
Got it in one!
VLADIMIR:
I begin to weary of this motif.
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps the other is called Cain. Cain! Cain!
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
He's all humanity. (Silence.) Look at the little cloud.
VLADIMIR:
(raising his eyes). Where?
ESTRAGON:
There. In the zenith.
VLADIMIR:
Well? (Pause.) What is there so wonderful about it?
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Let's pass on now to something else, do you mind?
VLADIMIR:
I was just going to suggest it.
ESTRAGON:
But to what?
VLADIMIR:
Ah!
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Suppose we got up to begin with?
VLADIMIR:
No harm trying.
They get up.
ESTRAGON:
Child's play.
VLADIMIR:
Simple question of will-power.
ESTRAGON:
And now?
POZZO:
Help!
ESTRAGON:
Let's go.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We're waiting for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah! (Despairing.) What'll we do, what'll we do!
POZZO:
Help!
VLADIMIR:
What about helping him?
ESTRAGON:
What does he want?
VLADIMIR:
He wants to get up.
ESTRAGON:
Then why doesn't he?
VLADIMIR:
He wants us to help him get up.
ESTRAGON:
Then why don't we? What are we waiting for?
They help Pozzo to his feet, let him go. He falls.
VLADIMIR:
We must hold him. (They get him up again. Pozzo sags between them, his arms round their necks.) #

Feeling better?
POZZO:
Who are you?
VLADIMIR:
Do you not recognize us?
POZZO:
I am blind.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps he can see into the future.
VLADIMIR:
Since when?
POZZO:
I used to have wonderful sight‚Äî but are you friends?
ESTRAGON:
(laughing noisily). He wants to know if we are friends!
VLADIMIR:
No, he means friends of his.
ESTRAGON:
Well?
VLADIMIR:
We've proved we are, by helping him.
ESTRAGON:
Exactly. Would we have helped him if we weren't his friends?
VLADIMIR:
Possibly.
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
Don't let's quibble about that now.
POZZO:
You are not highwaymen?
ESTRAGON:
Highwaymen! Do we look like highwaymen?
VLADIMIR:
Damn it, can't you see the man is blind!
ESTRAGON:
Damn it, so he is. (Pause.) So he says.
POZZO:
Don't leave me!
VLADIMIR:
No question of it.
ESTRAGON:
For the moment.
POZZO:
What time is it?
VLADIMIR:
(inspecting the sky). Seven o'clock . . . eight o'clock . . .
ESTRAGON:
That depends what time of year it is.
POZZO:
Is it evening?
Silence. Vladimir and Estragon scrutinize the sunset.
ESTRAGON:
It's rising.
VLADIMIR:
Impossible.
ESTRAGON:
Perhaps it's the dawn.
VLADIMIR:
Don't be a fool. It's the west over there.
ESTRAGON:
How do you know?
POZZO:
(anguished). Is it evening?
VLADIMIR:
Anyway, it hasn't moved.
ESTRAGON:
I tell you it's rising.
POZZO:
Why don't you answer me?
ESTRAGON:
Give us a chance.
VLADIMIR:
(reassuring). It's evening, Sir, it's evening, night is drawing nigh. My friend here would have me doubt it and I must confess he shook me for a moment. But it is not for nothing I have lived through this long day and I can assure you it is very near the end of its repertory. (Pause.) How do you feel now?
ESTRAGON:
How much longer are we to cart him around? (They half release him, catch him again as he falls.) We are not caryatids!
VLADIMIR:
You were saying your sight used to be good, if I heard you right.
POZZO:
Wonderful! Wonderful, wonderful sight!
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
(irritably). Expand! Expand!
VLADIMIR:
Let him alone. Can't you see he's thinking of the days when he was happy. (Pause.) Memoria praeteritorum bonorum‚Äî that must be unpleasant.
ESTRAGON:
We wouldn't know.
VLADIMIR:
And it came on you all of a sudden?
POZZO:
Quite wonderful!
VLADIMIR:
I'm asking you if it came on you all of a sudden.
POZZO:
I woke up one fine day as blind as Fortune. (Pause.) Sometimes I wonder if I'm not still asleep.
VLADIMIR:
And when was that?
POZZO:
I don't know.
VLADIMIR:
But no later than yesterday‚Äî
POZZO:
(violently). Don't question me! The blind have no notion of time. The things of time are hidden from them too.
VLADIMIR:
Well just fancy that! I could have sworn it was just the opposite.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
POZZO:
Where are we?
VLADIMIR:
I couldn't tell you.
POZZO:
It isn't by any chance the place known as the Board?
VLADIMIR:
Never heard of it.
POZZO:
What is it like?
VLADIMIR:
(looking round). It's indescribable. It's like nothing. There's nothing. There's a tree.
POZZO:
Then it's not the Board.
ESTRAGON:
(sagging). Some diversion!
POZZO:
Where is my menial?
VLADIMIR:
He's about somewhere.
POZZO:
Why doesn't he answer when I call?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know. He seems to be sleeping. Perhaps he's dead.
POZZO:
What happened, exactly?
ESTRAGON:
Exactly!
VLADIMIR:
The two of you slipped. (Pause.) And fell.
POZZO:
Go and see is he hurt.
VLADIMIR:
We can't leave you.
POZZO:
You needn't both go.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). You go.
ESTRAGON:
After what he did to me? Never!
POZZO:
Yes yes, let your friend go, he stinks so. (Silence.) What is he waiting for?
VLADIMIR:
What are you waiting for?
ESTRAGON:
I'm waiting for Godot.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
What exactly should he do?
POZZO:
Well to begin with he should pull on the rope, as hard as he likes so long as he doesn't strangle him. He usually responds to that. If not he should give him a taste of his boot, in the face and the privates as far as possible.
VLADIMIR:
(to Estragon). You see, you've nothing to be afraid of. It's even an opportunity to revenge yourself.
ESTRAGON:
And if he defends himself?
POZZO:
No no, he never defends himself.
VLADIMIR:
I'll come flying to the rescue.
ESTRAGON:
Don't take your eyes off me.
He goes towards Lucky.
VLADIMIR:
Make sure he's alive before you start. No point in exerting yourself if he's dead.
ESTRAGON:
(bending over Lucky). He's breathing.
VLADIMIR:
Then let him have it.
With sudden fury Estragon starts kicking Lucky, hurling abuse at him as he does so. But he hurts his foot and moves away, limping and groaning. Lucky stirs.
ESTRAGON:
Oh the brute!
He sits down on the mound and tries to take off his boot. But he soon desists and disposes himself for sleep, his arms on his knees and his head on his arms.
POZZO:
What's gone wrong now?
VLADIMIR:
My friend has hurt himself.
POZZO:
And Lucky?
VLADIMIR:
So it is he?
POZZO:
What?
VLADIMIR:
It is Lucky?
POZZO:
I don't understand.
VLADIMIR:
And you are Pozzo?
POZZO:
Certainly I am Pozzo.
VLADIMIR:
The same as yesterday?
POZZO:
Yesterday?
VLADIMIR:
We met yesterday. (Silence.) Do you not remember?
POZZO:
I don't remember having met anyone yesterday. But tomorrow I won't remember having met anyone today. So don't count on me to enlighten you.
VLADIMIR:
But‚Äî
POZZO:
Enough! Up pig!
VLADIMIR:
You were bringing him to the fair to sell him. You spoke to us. He danced. He thought. You had your sight.
POZZO:
As you please. Let me go! (Vladimir moves away.) Up!
Lucky gets up, gathers up his burdens.
VLADIMIR:
Where do you go from here?
POZZO:
On. (Lucky, laden down, takes his place before Pozzo.) Whip! (Lucky puts everything down, looks for whip, finds it, puts it into Pozzo's hand, takes up everything again.) Rope!
Lucky puts everything down, puts end of rope into Pozzo's hand, takes up everything again.
VLADIMIR:
What is there in the bag?
POZZO:
Sand. (He jerks the rope.) On!
VLADIMIR:
Don't go yet.
POZZO:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
What do you do when you fall far from help?
POZZO:
We wait till we can get up. Then we go on. On!
VLADIMIR:
Before you go tell him to sing.
POZZO:
Who?
VLADIMIR:
Lucky.
POZZO:
To sing?
VLADIMIR:
Yes. Or to think. Or to recite.
POZZO:
But he is dumb.
VLADIMIR:
Dumb!
POZZO:
Dumb. He can't even groan.
VLADIMIR:
Dumb! Since when?
POZZO:
(suddenly furious.) Have you not done tormenting me with your accursed time! It's abominable! When! When! One day, is that not enough for you, one day he went dumb, one day I went blind, one day we'll go deaf, one day we were born, one day we shall die, the same day, the same second, is that not enough for you? (Calmer.) They give birth astride of a grave, the light gleams an instant, then it's night once more. (He jerks the rope.) On!
Exeunt Pozzo and Lucky. Vladimir follows them to the edge of the stage, looks after them. The noise of falling, reinforced by mimic of Vladimir, announces that they are down again. Silence. Vladimir goes towards Estragon, contemplates him a moment, then shakes him awake.
ESTRAGON:
(wild gestures, incoherent words. Finally.) Why will you never let me sleep?
VLADIMIR:
I felt lonely.
ESTRAGON:
I was dreaming I was happy.
VLADIMIR:
That passed the time.
ESTRAGON:
I was dreaming that‚Äî
VLADIMIR:
(violently). Don't tell me! (Silence.) I wonder is he really blind.
ESTRAGON:
Blind? Who?
VLADIMIR:
Pozzo.
ESTRAGON:
Blind?
VLADIMIR:
He told us he was blind.
ESTRAGON:
Well what about it?
VLADIMIR:
It seemed to me he saw us.
ESTRAGON:
You dreamt it. (Pause.) Let's go. We can't. Ah! (Pause.) Are you sure it wasn't him?
VLADIMIR:
Who?
ESTRAGON:
Godot.
VLADIMIR:
But who?
ESTRAGON:
Pozzo.
VLADIMIR:
Not at all! (Less sure.) Not at all! (Still less sure.) Not at all!
ESTRAGON:
I suppose I might as well get up. (He gets up painfully.) Ow! Didi!
VLADIMIR:
I don't know what to think any more.
ESTRAGON:
My feet! (He sits down again and tries to take off his boots.) Help me!
VLADIMIR:
Was I sleeping, while the others suffered? Am I sleeping now? Tomorrow, when I wake, or think I do, what shall I say of today? That with Estragon my friend, at this place, until the fall of night, I waited for Godot? That Pozzo passed, with his carrier, and that he spoke to us? Probably. But in all that what truth will there be?
(Estragon, having struggled with his boots in vain, is dozing off again. Vladimir looks at him.) He'll know nothing. He'll tell me about the blows he received and I'll give him a carrot. (Pause.) Astride of a grave and a difficult birth. Down in the hole, lingeringly, the grave digger puts on the forceps. We have time to grow old. The air is full of our cries. (He listens.) But habit is a great deadener. (He looks again at Estragon.) At me too someone is looking, of me too someone is saying, He is sleeping, he knows nothing, let him sleep on. (Pause.) I can't go on! (Pause.) What have I said?
He goes feverishly to and fro, halts finally at extreme left, broods. Enter Boy right. He halts. Silence.
BOY:
Mister . . . (Vladimir turns.) Mister Albert . . .
VLADIMIR:
Off we go again. (Pause.) Do you not recognize me?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
It wasn't you came yesterday.
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
This is your first time.
BOY:
Yes Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
You have a message from Mr. Godot.
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
He won't come this evening.
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
But he'll come tomorrow.
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Without fail.
BOY:
Yes Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Did you meet anyone?
BOY:
No Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Two other . . . (he hesitates) . . . men?
BOY:
I didn't see anyone, Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
What does he do, Mr. Godot? (Silence.) Do you hear me? #

BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Well?
BOY:
He does nothing, Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
How is your brother?
BOY:
He's sick, Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Perhaps it was he came yesterday.
BOY:
I don't know, Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
(softly). Has he a beard, Mr. Godot?
BOY:
Yes Sir.
VLADIMIR:
Fair or . . . (he hesitates) . . . or black?
BOY:
I think it's white, Sir.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Christ have mercy on us!
Silence.
BOY:
What am I to tell Mr. Godot, Sir?
VLADIMIR:
Tell him . . . (he hesitates) . . . tell him you saw me and that . . . (he hesitates) . . . that you saw me. (Pause. Vladimir advances, the Boy recoils. Vladimir halts, the Boy halts. With sudden violence.) You're sure you saw me, you won't come and tell me tomorrow that you never saw me!
Silence. Vladimir makes a sudden spring forward, the Boy avoids him and exits running. Silence. The sun sets, the moon rises. As in Act 1. Vladimir stands motionless and bowed. Estragon wakes, takes off his boots, gets up with one in each hand and goes and puts them down center front, then goes towards Vladimir.
ESTRAGON:
What's wrong with you?
VLADIMIR:
Nothing.
ESTRAGON:
I'm going.
VLADIMIR:
So am I.
ESTRAGON:
Was I long asleep?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Where shall we go?
VLADIMIR:
Not far.
ESTRAGON:
Oh yes, let's go far away from here.
VLADIMIR:
We can't.
ESTRAGON:
Why not?
VLADIMIR:
We have to come back tomorrow.
ESTRAGON:
What for?
VLADIMIR:
To wait for Godot.
ESTRAGON:
Ah! (Silence.) He didn't come?
VLADIMIR:
No.
ESTRAGON:
And now it's too late.
VLADIMIR:
Yes, now it's night.
ESTRAGON:
And if we dropped him? (Pause.) If we dropped him?
VLADIMIR:
He'd punish us. (Silence. He looks at the tree.) Everything's dead but the tree.
ESTRAGON:
(looking at the tree). What is it?
VLADIMIR:
It's the tree.
ESTRAGON:
Yes, but what kind?
VLADIMIR:
I don't know. A willow.
Estragon draws Vladimir towards the tree. They stand motionless before it. Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Why don't we hang ourselves?
VLADIMIR:
With what?
ESTRAGON:
You haven't got a bit of rope?
VLADIMIR:
No.
ESTRAGON:
Then we can't.
Silence.
VLADIMIR:
Let's go.
ESTRAGON:
Wait, there's my belt.
VLADIMIR:
It's too short.
ESTRAGON:
You could hang onto my legs.
VLADIMIR:
And who'd hang onto mine?
ESTRAGON:
True.
VLADIMIR:
Show me all the same. (Estragon loosens the cord that holds up his trousers which, much too big for him, fall about his ankles. They look at the cord.) It might do in a pinch. But is it strong enough?
ESTRAGON:
We'll soon see. Here.
They each take an end of the cord and pull. #

It breaks. They almost fall.
VLADIMIR:
Not worth a curse.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
You say we have to come back tomorrow?
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
ESTRAGON:
Then we can bring a good bit of rope.
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
Silence.
ESTRAGON:
Didi?
VLADIMIR:
Yes.
ESTRAGON:
I can't go on like this.
VLADIMIR:
That's what you think.
ESTRAGON:
If we parted? That might be better for us.
VLADIMIR:
We'll hang ourselves tomorrow. (Pause.) Unless Godot comes.
ESTRAGON:
And if he comes?
VLADIMIR:
We'll be saved.
Vladimir takes off his hat (Lucky's), peers inside it, feels about inside it, shakes it, knocks on the crown, puts it on again.
ESTRAGON:
Well? Shall we go?
VLADIMIR:
Pull on your trousers.
ESTRAGON:
What?
VLADIMIR:
Pull on your trousers.
ESTRAGON:
You want me to pull off my trousers?
VLADIMIR:
Pull ON your trousers.
ESTRAGON:
(realizing his trousers are down). True.
He pulls up his trousers.
VLADIMIR:
Well? Shall we go?
ESTRAGON:
Yes, let's go.
They do not move.

Curtain.

No Exit 



by Jean Paul Sartre 



Although many nineteenth century philosophers developed the concepts of existentialism, 
it was the French writer Jean Paul Sartre who popularized it. His one act play, Huis Clos 
or No Exit, first produced in Paris in May, 19944, is the clearest example and metaphor 
for this philosophy. There are only four characters: the VALET, GARCIN, ESTELLE, 
and INEZ and the entire play takes place in a drawing room, Second Empire style, with a 
massive bronze ornament on the mantelpiece. However the piece contains essential germs 
of existentialist thought such as "Hell is other people." As you read the play, put yourself 
in that drawing room with two people you hate most in the world. 



GARCIN (enters, accompanied by the VALET, and glances around him): So here we 
are? 

VALET: Yes, Mr. Garcin. 

GARCIN: And this is what it looks like? 

VALET: Yes. 

GARCIN: Second Empire furniture, I observe... Well, well, I dare say one gets used to it 
in time. 

VALET: Some do, some don't. 

GARCIN: Are all the rooms like this one? 

VALET: How could they be? We cater for all sorts: Chinamen and Indians, for instance. 
What use would they have for a Second Empire chair? 

GARCIN: And what use do you suppose I have for one? Do you know who I was?. ..Oh, 
well, it's no great matter. And, to tell the truth, I had quite a habit of living among 
furniture that I didn't relish, and in false positions. I'd even come to like it. A false 
position in a Louis-Philippe dining room‚Äî you know the style?‚Äî well, that had its points, 
you know. Bogus in bogus, so to speak. 

VALET: And you'll find that living in a Second Empire drawing-room has its points. 

GARCIN: Really?. ..Yes, yes, I dare say. ..Still I certainly didn't expect‚Äî this! You know 
what they tell us down there? 

VALET: What about? 



GARCIN: About.. .this- er~residence. 

VALET: Really, sir, how could you believe such cock-and-bull stories? Told by people 
who'd never set foot here. For, of course, if they had‚Äî 

GARCIN: Quite so. But I say, where are the instruments of torture? 

VALET: The what? 

GARCIN: The racks and red-hot pincers and all the other paraphernalia? 

Think about the place you have chosen as your hell. Does it look ordinary and bourgeois, 
like Sartre's drawing room, or is it equipped with literal instruments of torture like 
Dante's Inferno? Can the mind be in hell in a beautiful place? Is there a way to find peace 
in a hellish physical environment? Enter Sartre's space more fully and imagine how it 
would feel to live there endlessly, night and day: 

VALET: Ah, you must have your little joke, sir. 

GARCIN: My little joke? Oh, I see. No, I wasn't joking. No mirrors, I notice. No 
windows. Only to be expected. And nothing breakable. But damn it all, they might have 
left me my toothbrush! 

VALET: That's good! So you haven't yet got over your‚Äî what-do-you-call-it?‚Äî sense of 
human dignity? Excuse my smiling. 

GARCIN: I'll ask you to be more polite. I quite realize the position I'm in, but I won't 
tolerate... 

VALET: Sorry, sir. No offense meant. But all our guests aske me the same questions. 
Silly questions, if you'll pardon my saying so. Where's the torture-chamber? That's the 
first thing they ask, all of them. They don't bother their heads about the bathroom 
requisites, that I can assure you. But after a bit, when they've got their nerve back, they 
start in about their toothbrushes and what-ot. Good heavens, Mr. Garcin, can't you use 
your brains? What, I ask you, would be the point of brushing your teeth? 

GARCIN: Yes, of course you're right. And why shouild one want to see oneself in a 
looking- glass? But that bronze contraption on the mantelpiece, that's another story. I 
suppose there will be times when I stare my eyes out at it. Stare my eyes out‚Äî see what I 
mean?. ..All right, let's put our cards on the table. I assure you I'm quite conscious of my 
position. Shall I tell you what it feels like? A man's drowning, choking, sinking by 
inches, till only his eyes are just above water. And what does he see? A bronze atrocity 
by‚Äî what's the fellow's name?‚Äî Barbedienne. A collector's piece. As in a nightmare. 
That's their idea, isn't it?. ..No, I suppose you're under orders not to answer questions; and 
I won't insist. But don't forget, my man, I've a good notion of what's coming to me, so 



don't you boast you've caught me off my guard. I'm facing the situation, facing it. So 
that's that; no toothbrush. And no bed, either. One never sleeps, I take it? 

VALET: That's so. 

GARCIN: Just as I expected. WHY should one sleep? A sort of drowsiness steals on you, 
tickles you behind the ears, and you feel your eyes closing‚Äî but why sleep? You lie down 
on the sofa and‚Äî in a flash, sleep flies away. Miles and miles away. So you rub your 
eyes, get up, and it starts all over again. 

VALET: Romantic, that's what you are. 

GARCIN: Will you keep quiet, please! ...I won't make a scene, I shan't be sorry for 
myself, I'll face the situation, as I said just now. Face it fairly and squarely. I son't have it 
springing at me from behind, before I've time to size it up. And you call that being 
"romantic!" So it comes to this; one doesn't need rest. Why bother about sleep if one isn't 
sleepy? That stands to reason, doesn't it? Wait a minute, there's a snag somewhere; 
something disagreeable. Why, now, should it be disagreeable? ...Ah, I see; it's life 
without a break. 

Could hell be described as too much of anything without a break? Are variety, 
moderation and balance instruments we use to keep us from boiling in any inferno of 
excess,' whether it be cheesecake or ravenous sex? 



VALET: What are you talking about? 

GARCIN: Your eyelids. We move ours up and down. Blinking, we call it. It's like a small 
black shutter that clicks down and makes a break. Everything goes black; one's eyes are 
moistened. You can't imagine how restful, refreshing, it is. Four thousand little rests per 
hour. Four thousand little respites‚Äî just think!. ..So that's the idea. I'm to live without 
eyelids. Don't act the fool, you know what I mean. No eyelids, no sleep; it follows, 
doesn't it? I shall never sleep again. But then‚Äî how shall I endure my own company? Try 
to understand. You see, I'm fond of teasing, it's a second nature with me‚Äî and I'm used to 
teasing myself. Plaguing myself, if you prefer; I don't tease nicely. But I can't go on doing 
that without a break. Down there I had my nights. I slept. I always had good nights. By 
way of compensation, I suppose. And happy little dreams. There was a green field. Just 
an ordinary field. I used to stroll in it.. .Is it daytime now? 

VALET: Can't you see? The lights are on. 

GARCIN: Ah, yes, I've got it. It's your daytime. And outside? 

VALET: Outside? 



GARCIN: Damn it, you know what I mean. Beyond that wall. 

VALET: There's a passage. 

GARCIN: And at the end of the passage? 

VALET: There's more rooms, more passages, and stairs. 

GARCIN: And what lies beyond them? 

VALET: That's all. 

GARCIN: But surely you have a day off sometimes. Where do you go? 

VALET: To my uncle's place. He's the head valet here. He has a room on the third floor. 

GARCIN: I should have guessed as much. Where's the light-switch? 

VALET: There isn't any. 

GARCIN: What? Can't one turn off the light? 

VALET: Oh, the management can cut off the current if they want to. But I can't 
remember their having done so on this floor. We have all the electricity we want. 

GARCIN: So one has to live with one's eyes open all the time? 

VALET: To live, did you say? 

GARCIN: Don't let's quibble over words. With one's eyes open. Forever. Always broad 
daylight in my eyes‚Äî and in my head. And suppose I took that contraption on the 
mantelpiece and dropped it on the lamp‚Äî wouldn't it go out? 
VALET: You can't move it. It's too heavy. 

GARCIN: You're right. It's too heavy. 

VALET: Very well, sir, if you don't need me any more, I'll be off. 

GARCIN: What? You're going? Wait. That's a bell, isn't it? And if I ring, you're bound to 
come? 

VALET: Well, yes, that's so‚Äî in a way. But you can never be sure about that bell. There's 
something wrong with the wiring, and it doesn't always work. 

GARCIN: It's working all right. 



VALET: So it is. But I shouldn't count on it too much if I were you. It's‚Äî capricious. 
Well, I really must go now. Yes, sir? 

GARCIN: No, never mind. What's this? 

VALET: Can't you see? An ordinary paper-knife. 

GARCIN: Are there books here? 

VALET: No. 

GARCIN: Then what's the use of this? Very well. You can go. (Garcin is by himself. He 
goes to the bronze ornament and strokes it reflectively. He sits down; then gets up, goes 
to the bell-push, and presses the button. The bell remains silent. He tries two or three 
times, without success. Then he tries to open the door, also without success. He calls the 
VALET several times, but gets no result. He beats the door with his fists, still calling. 
Suddenly he grows calm and sits down again. At the same moment the door opens and 
INEZ enters, followed by the VALET>) 



How does Sartre create a sense of place through dialogue? Can you imagine what it feels 
like to stay awake all the time with the lights on with no hope of leaving a specific place? 
How does GARCIN react to this hell? How could you twist your daily activities around 
so that everyday habits become hell? Is there a pattern of circumstances that reinforces 
the experience of hell? 



VALET: Did you call, sir? 

GARCIN: (About to answer "yes", but sees INEZ and says) No. 



VALET: This is your room, madam. If there's any information you require‚Äî? Most of our 
guests have quite a lot to ask me. But I won't insist. Anyhow, as regards the toothbrush, 
and the electric bell, and that thing on the mantelshelf, this gentleman can tell you 
anything you want to know as well as I could. We've had a little chat, him and me. 
(Exits.) 



INEZ: Where's Florence? Didn't you hear? I asked you about Florence. Where is she? 



GARCIN: I haven't an idea. 



INEZ: Ah, that's the way it works, is it? Torture by separation. Well, as far as I'm 
concerned, you won't get anywhere. Florence was a tiresome little fool, and I shan't miss 
her in the least. 



GARCIN: I beg your pardon. Who do you suppose I am? 
INEZ: You? Why, the torturer, of course. 



GARCIN: Well, that's a good one! Too comic for words. I the torturer! So you came in, 
had a look at me, and thought I was‚Äî er‚Äî one of the staff. Of course, it's that silly fellow's 
fault; he should have introduced us. A torturer indeed! I'm Joseph Garcin, journalist and 
man of letters by profession. And as we're both in the same boat, so to speak, might I ask 
you, Mrs.‚Äî? 



INEZ:Not "Mrs." I'm unmarried. 



GARCIN: Right. That's a start, anyway. Well, now that we've broken the ice, do you 
really think I look like a torturer? And, by the way, how does one recognize torturers 
when one sees them? Evidently you've ideas on the subject. 



INEZ: They look frightened. 



GARCIN: Frightened? But how ridiculous! Of whom should they be frightened? Of their 
victims? 



INEZ: Laugh away, but I know what I'm talking about. I've often watched my face in the 
glass. 



GARCIN: In the glass? How beastly of them! They've removed everything in the least 
resembling a glass. Anyhow, I can assure you I'm not frightened. Not that I take my 
position lightly; I realize its gravity only too well. But I'm not afraid. 



INEZ: That's your affair. Must you be here all the time, or do you take a stroll outside, 
now and then? 



GARCIN: The door's locked. 
Oh!.. That's too bad. 



GARCIN: I can quite understand that it bores you having me here. And I too‚Äî well, quite 
frankly, I'd rather be alone. I want to think things out, you know; to set my life in order, 
and one does that better by oneself. But I'm sure we'll manage to pull along together 
somehow. I'm no talker, I don't move much; in fact I'm a peaceful sort of fellow. Only, if 
I may venture on a suggestion, we should make a point of being extremely courteous to 
each other. That will ease the situation for us both. 



INEZ: I'm not polite. 

GARCIN: Then I must be polite for two. 

INEZ: Your mouth! 

GARCIN: I beg your pardon. 



INEZ: Can't you keep your mouth still? You keep twisting it about all the time. It's 
grotesque. 



GARCIN: So sorry. I wasn't aware of it. 



INEZ: That's just what I reproach you with. There you are! You talk about politeness, and 
you don't even try to control your face. Remember you're not alone; you've no right to 
inflict the sight of your fear on me. 



GARCIN: How about you? Aren't you afraid? 



INEZ: What would be the use? There was some point in being afraid before, while one 
still had hope. 



GARCIN: There's no more hope‚Äî but it's still "before." We haven't yet begun to suffer. 



INEZ: That's so. Well? What's going to happen? 

GARCIN: I don't know. I'm waiting. (Enter ESTELLE with the VALET. She looks at 
GARCIN whose face is still hidden by his hands.) 



ESTELLE: No. Don't look up. I know what you're hiding with your hands. I know you've 
no face left. What! But I don't know you! 



GARCIN: I'm not the torturer, madam. 



ESTELLE: I never thought you were. I ‚ÄîI thought someone was trying to play a rather 
nasty trick on me. Is anyone else coming? 



VALET: No, madam. No one else is coming. 



ESTELLE: Oh! Then we're to stay by ourselves, the three of us, this gentleman, this lady 
and myself, (laughs.) 



GARCIN: There's nothing to laugh about. 



ESTELLE: It's those sofas. They're so hideous. And just look how they've been arranged. 
It makes me think of New Year's Day‚Äî when I used to visit that boring old aunt of mine, 
Aunt Mary. Her house is full of horror like that... I suppose each of us has a sofa of his 
own. Is that one mine? But you can't expect me to sit on that one. It would be too horrible 
for words. I'm in pale blue and it's vivid green. 



INEZ: Would you prefer mine? 



ESTELLE: That claret-colored one, you mean? That's very sweet of you, but really- no, I 
don't think it'd be so much better. What's the good of worrying, anyhow? We've got to 
take what comes to us, and I'll stick to the green one. The only one which might do at a 
pinch, is that gentleman's. 



INEZ: Did you hear, Mr. Garcin? 

GARCIN: Oh‚Äî the sofa, you mean. So sorry. Please take it, madam. 



ESTELLE: Thanks. Well, as we're to live together, I suppose we'd better introduce 
ourselves. My name's Rigault. Estelle Rigault. 



INEZ: And I'm Inez Serrano. Very pleased to meet you. 

GARCIN: Joseph Garcin. 

VALET: Do you require me any longer? 

ESTELLE: No, you can go. I'll ring when I want you. 

INEZ: You're very pretty. I wish we'd had some flowers to welcome you with. 



ESTELLE: Flowers? Yes, I loved flowers. Only they'd fade so quickly here, wouldn't 
they? It's so stuffy. Oh, well, the great thing is to keep as cheerful as we can, don't you 
agree? Of course, you, too, are‚Äî 



INEZ: Yes. Last week. What about you? 



ESTELLE: I'm‚Äî quite recent. Yesterday. As a matter of act, the ceremony's not quite 
over. The wind's blowing my sister's veil all over the place. She's trying her best to cry. 
Come, dear! Make another effort. That's better. Two tears, two little tears are twinkling 
under the black veil. Oh dear! What a sight Olga looks this morning! She's holding my 
sister's arm, helping her along. She's not crying, and I don't blame her, tears always mess 
one's face up, don't they? Olga was my bosom friend, you know. 



INEZ: Did you suffer much? 

ESTELLE: No. I was only half conscious, mostly. 



INEZ: What was it? 



ESTELLE: Pneumonia. It's over now, they're leaving the cemetery. Good-by. Good-by. 
Quite a crowd they are. My husband's stayed at home. Prostrated with grief, poor man. 
How about you? 



INEZ: The gas stove. 
ESTELLE: And you, Mr. Garcin? 



GARCIA: Twelve bullets through my chest. Sorry! I fear I'm not good company among 
the dead. 



ESTELLE: Please, please don't use that word. It's so‚Äî so crude. In terribly bad taste, 
really. It doesn't mean much, anyhow. Somehow I feel we've never been so much alive as 
now. If we've absolutely got to mention this‚Äî this state of things, I suggest we call 
ourselves‚Äî wait!‚Äî absentees. Have you been‚Äî been absent for long? 



GARCIN: About a month. 



ESTELLE: Where do you come from? 



GARCIN: From Rio. 



ESTELLE: I'm from Paris. Have you anyone left down there? 



GARCIN: Yes, my wife. She's waiting at the entrance of the barracks. She comes there 
every day. But they won't let her in. Now she's trying to peep between the bars. She 
doesn't yet know I'm‚Äî absent, but she suspects it. Now she's going away. She's wearing 
her black dress. So much the better, she won't need to change. She isn't crying, but she 
never did cry, anyhow. It's a bright, sunny day and she's like a black shadow creeping 
down the empty street. Those big tragic eyes of hers‚Äî with that martyred look they 
always had. Oh, how she got on my nerves! 



INEZ: Estelle! 

ESTELLE: Please, Mr. Garcin! 

GARCIN: What is it? 

ESTELLE: You're sitting on my sofa. 

GARCIN: I beg your pardon. 

ESTELLE: You looked so‚Äî so far away. Sorry I disturbed you. 



GARCIN: I was setting my life in order. You may laugh but you'd do better to follow my 
example. 



INEZ: No need. My life's in perfect order. It tidied itself up nicely of its own accord. So I 
needn't bother about it now. 



GARCIN: Really? You imagine it's so simple as that. Whew! How hot it is here! Do you 
mind if‚Äî 



ESTELLE: How dare you! No, please don't. I loathe men in their shirt-sleeves. 



GARCIN: All right. Of course, I used to spend my nights in the newspaper office, and it 
was a regular Black Hole, so we never kept our coats on. Stiflingly hot it could be. 
Stifling, that it is. It's night now. 



ESTELLE: That's so. Olga's undressing; it must be after midnight. How quickly the time 
passes, on earth! 



INEZ: Yes, after midnight. They've sealed up my room. It's dark, pitch-dark, and empty. 



GARCIN: They've strung their coats on the backs of the chairs and rolled up their shirt- 
sleeves above the elbow. The air stinks of men and cigar-smoke. I used to like living 
among men in their shirt-sleeves. 



ESTELLE: Well, in that case our tastes differ. That's all it proves. What about you? Do 
you like men in their shirt-sleeves? 



INEZ: Oh, I don't care much for men any way. 

ESTELLE: Really I can't imagine why they put us three together. It doesn't make sense. 

INEZ: What's that you said? 



ESTELLE: I'm looking at you two and thinking that we're going to live together.. .It's so 
absurd. I expected to meet old friends, or relatives. 



INEZ: Yes, a charming old friend‚Äî with a hole in the middle of his face. 



ESTELLE: Yes, him too. He danced the tango so divinely. Like a professional. ..But why, 
why should we of all people be put together? 



GARCIN: A pure fluke, I should say. They lodge folks as they can, in the order of their 
coming. Why are you laughing? 



INEZ: Because you amuse me with your "flukes. "As if they left anything to chance! But I 
suppose you've got to reassure yourself somehow. 



ESTELLE: I wonder, now. Don't you think we may have met each other at some time in 
our lives? 



INEZ: Never. I shouldn't have forgotten you. 



ESTELLE: Or perhaps we have friends in common. I wonder if you know the Dubois- 
Seymours? 



INEZ: Not likely. 

ESTELLE: But everyone went to their parties. 

INEZ: What's their job? 



ESTELLE: Oh, they don't do anything. But they have a lovely house in the country, and 
hosts of people visit them. 



INEZ: I didn't. I was a post-office clerk. 

ESTELLE: Ah, yes... Of course, in that case‚Äî And you, Mr. Garcin? 

GARCIN: We've never met. I always lived in Rio. 

ESTELLE: Then you must be right. It's mere chance that has brought us together. 



INEZ: Mere chance? Then it's by chance this room is furnished as we see it. It's an 
accident that the sofa on the right is a livid green, and that one on the left's wine-red. 
Mere chance? Well, just try to shift the sofas and you'll see the difference quick enough. 
And that statue on the mantelpiece, do you think it's there by accident? And what about 
the heat here? How about that? I tell you they've thought it all out. Down to the last 
detail. Nothing was left to chance. This room was all set for us. 



ESTELLE: But really! Everything here's so hideous; all in angles, so uncomfortable. I 
always loathed angles. 



INEZ: And do you think I lived in a Second Empire drawing-room? 
ESTELLE: So it was all fixed up beforehand? 
INEZ: Yes. And they've put us together deliberately. 



ESTELLE: Then it's not mere chance that you precisely are sitting opposite me? But 
what can be the idea behind it? 



INEZ: Ask me another! I only know they're waiting. 



ESTELLE: I never could bear the idea of anyone's expecting something from me. It 
always made me want to do just the opposite. 



INEZ: Well, do it. Do it if you can. You don't even know what they expect. 



ESTELLE: It's outrageous! So something's coming to me from you two? Something 
nasty, I suppose. There are some faces that tell me everything at once. Yours don't 
convey anything. 



GARCIN: Look here! Why are we together? You've given us quite enough hints, you 
may as well come out with it. 



INEZ: But I know nothing, absolutely nothing about it. I'm as much in the dark as you 
are. 



GARCIN: We've got to know. 

INEZ: If only each of us had the guts to tell‚Äî 

GARCIN: Tell what? 

INEZ: Estelle! 

ESTELLE: Yes? 

INEZ: What have you done? I mean, why have they sent you here? 



ESTELLE: That's just it. I haven't a notion, not the foggiest. In fact, I'm wondering if 
there hasn't been some ghastly mistake. Don't smile. Just think of the number of people 
who-who become absentees every day. There must be thousands and thousands, and 
probably they're sorted out by‚Äî by understrappers, you know what I mean. Stupid 
employees who don't know their job. So they're bound to make mistakes sometimes... Do 
stop smiling. Why don't you speak? If they made a mistake in my case, they may have 
done the same about you. And you, too. Anyhow, isn't it better to think we've got here by 
mistake? 



INEZ: Is that all you have to tell me? 



ESTELLE: What else should I tell? I've nothing to hide. I lost my parents when I was a 
kid, and I had my young brother to bring up. We were terribly poor and when an old 
friend of my people asked me to marry him I said yes. He was very well off, and quite 
nice. My brother was a very delicate child and needed all sorts of attention, so really that 
was the right thing for me to do, don't you agree? My husband was old enough to be my 
father, but for six years we had a happy married life. Then two years ago I met the man I 
was fated to love. We knew it the moment we set eyes on each other. He asked me to run 
away with him, and I refused. Then I got pneumonia and it finished me. That's the whole 
story. No doubt, by certain standards, I did wrong to sacrifice my youth to a man nearly 
three times my age. Do you think that could be called a sin? 



GARCIN: Certainly not. And now, tell me, do you think it's a crime to stand by one's 
principles? 



ESTELLE: Of course not. Surely no one could blame a man for that! 

GARCIN: Wait a bit! I ran a pacifist newspaper. Then war broke out. What was I to do? 
Everyone was watching me, wondering: "Will he dare?" Well, I dared. I folded my arms 
and they shot me. Had I done anything wrong? 

ESTELLE: Wrong? On the contrary. You were‚Äî 
INEZ: ‚Äîa hero! And how about your wife, Mr. Garcin? 
GARCIN: That's simple. I'd rescued her from‚Äî from the gutter. 



ESTELLE: You see! You see! 



INEZ: Yes, I see. Look here! What' s the point of play-acting, trying to throw dust in 
each other's eyes? We're all tarred with the same brush. 



ESTELLE: How dare you! 



INEZ: Yes, we are criminals‚Äî murderers‚Äî all three of us. We're in hell, my pets; they 
never make mistakes, and people aren't damned for nothing. 



ESTELLE: Stop! For heaven's sake‚Äî 

INEZ: In hell! Damned souls‚Äî that's us, all three! 

ESTELLE: Keep quiet! I forbid you to use such disgusting words. 



INEZ: A damned soul‚Äî that's you, my little plaster saint. And ditto our friend there, the 
noble pacifist. We've had our hour of pleasure, haven't we? There have been people who 
burned their lives out for our sakes‚Äî and we chuckled over it. So now we have to pay the 
reckoning. 



GARCIN: Will you keep your mouth shut, damn it! 

INEZ: Well, well! Ah, I understand now. I know why they've put us three together. 

GARCIN: I advise you to‚Äî to think twice before you say any more. 



INEZ: Wait! You'll see how simple it is. Childishly simple. Obviously there aren't any 
physical torments‚Äî you agree, don't you? And yet we're in hell. And no one else will 
come here. We'll stay in this room together, the three of us, for ever and ever.. .In short, 
there's someone absent here, the official torturer. 



GARCIN: I'd noticed that. 



INEZ: It's obvious what they're after‚Äî an economy of man-power‚Äî or devil-power, if you 
prefer. The same idea as in the cafeteria, where customers serve themselves. 



ESTELLE: Whatever do you mean? 



INEZ: I mean that each of us will act as torturer of the two others. 



GARCIN: No, I shall never be your torturer. I wish neither of you any harm, and I've no 
concern with you. None at all. So the solution's easy enough; each of us stays put in his 
or her corner and takes no notice of the others. You here, you here, and I there. Like 
soldiers at our posts. Also, we mustn't speak. Not one word. That won't be difficult; each 
of us has plenty of material for self-communing. I think I could stay ten thousand years 
with only my thoughts for company. 



ESTELLE: Have I got to keep silent, too? 



GARCIN: Yes. And that way we‚Äî we'll work out our salvation. Looking into ourselves, 
never raising our heads. Agreed? 



INEZ: Agreed. 
ESTELLE: I agree. 



GARCIN: Then-good-by. 

(Inez sings to herself while Estelle has been plying her powder-puff and lipstick. She 

looks round for a mirror, fumbles in her bag, then turns toward Garcin. 



ESTELLE: Excuse me, have you a glass? Any sort of glass, a pocket-mirror will do. 
(Garcin remains silent.) Even if you won't speak to me, you might lend me a glass. 



INEZ: Don't worry. I've a glass in my bag. It's gone! They must have taken it from me at 
the entrance. 



ESTELLE: How tiresome! (Estelle shuts her eyes and sways, as if about to faint. Inez 
runs forward and holds her up.) 



INEZ: What's the matter? 



ESTELLE: I feel so queer. Don't you ever get taken that way? When I can't see myself I 
begin to wonder if I really and truly exist. I pat myself just to make sure, but it doesn't 
help much. 



INEZ: You're lucky. I'm always conscious of myself‚Äî in my mind. Painfully conscious. 



ESTELLE: Ah yes, in your mind. But everything that goes on in one's head is so vague, 
isn't it? It makes one want to sleep. I've six big mirrors in my bedroom. There they are. I 
can see them. But they don't see me. They're reflecting the carpet, the settee, the window- 
- but how empty it is, a glass in which I'm absent! When I talked to people I always made 
sure there was one near by in which I could see myself. I watched myself talking. And 
somehow it kept me alert, seeing myself as the others saw me. ..Oh dear! My lipstick! I'm 
sure I've put it on all crooked. No, I can't do wihtout a looking-glass for ever and ever. I 
simply can't. 



INEZ: Suppose I try to be your glass? Come and pay me a visit, dear. Here's a place for 
you on my sofa. 



ESTELLE: But‚Äî (points to Garcin) 

INEZ: Oh, he doesn't count. 

ESTELLE: But we're going to ‚Äîto hurt each other. You said it yourself. 

INEZ: Do I look as if I wanted to hurt you? 

ESTELLE: One never can tell. 



INEZ: Much more likely YOU'LL hurt ME. Still, what does it matter? If I've got to 
suffer, it may as well be at your hands, your pretty hands. Sit down. Come closer. Closer. 
Look into my eyes. What do you see? 



ESTELLE: Oh, I'm there! But so tiny I can't see myself properly. 



INEZ: But I can. Every inch of you. Now ask me questions. I'll be as candid as any 
looking-glass. 



ESTELLE: Please, Mr. Garcin. Sure our chatter isn't boring you? 

INEZ: Don't worry about him. As I said, he doesn't count. We're by ourselves. ..Ask 
away. 

ESTELLE: Are my lips all right? 

INEZ: Show! No, they're a bit smudgy. 

ESTELLE: I thought as much. Luckily no one's seen me. I'll try again. 



INEZ: That's better. No. Follow the line of your lips. Wait! ! I'll guide your hand. There. 
That's quite good. 



ESTELLE: As good as when I came in? 

INEZ: Far better. Cruder. Your mouth looks quite diabolical that way. 



ESTELLE: Good gracious! And you say you like it! How maddening, not being able to 
see for myself! You're quite sure, Miss Serrano, that it's all right now? 



INEZ: Won't you call me Inez? 
ESTELLE: Are you sure it looks all right? 
INEZ: You're lovely, Estelle. 



ESTELLE: But how can I rely upon your taste? Is it the same as my taste? Oh, how 
sickening it all is, enough to drive one crazy! 



INEZ: I HAVE your taste, my dear, because I like you so much. Look at me. No, straight. 
Now smile. I'm not so ugly, either. Am I not nicer than your glass? 



ESTELLE: Oh, I don't know. Your scare me rather. My reflection in the glass never did 
that; of course, I knew it so well. Like something I had tamed.. .I'm going to smile, and 
my smile will sink down into your pupils, and heaven knows what it will become. 
INEZ: And why shouldn't you "tame" me? Listen! I want you to call me Inez. We must 
be great friends. 



ESTELLE: I don't make friends with women very easily. 



INEZ: Not with postal clerks, you mean? Hullo, what's that‚Äî that nasty red spot at the 
bottom of your cheek? A pimple? 



ESTELLE: A pimple? Oh, how simply foul! Where! 



INEZ: There.. .You know the way the catch larks‚Äî with a mirror? I'm your lark-mirror, 
my dear, and you can't escape me. ..There isn't any pimple, not a trace of one. So what 
about it? Suppose the mirror started telling lies? Or suppose I covered my eyes‚Äî as he is 
doing‚Äî and refused to look at you, all that loveliness of yours would be wasted on the 
desert air. No, don't be afraid, I can't help looking at you. I shan't turn my eyes away. And 
I'll be nice to you, ever so nice. Only you must be nice to me, too. 



ESTELLE: Are you really‚Äî attracted by me? 

INEZ: Very much indeed. 

ESTELLE: But I wish he'd notice me too. 



INEZ: Of course! Because he's a MAN! You've won. But look at her, damn it! Don't 
pretend. You haven't missed a word of what we've said. 



GARCIN: Quite so; not a word. I stuck my fingers in my ears, but your voices thudded in 
my brain. Silly chatter. Now will you leave me in peace, you two? I'm not interested in 
you. 



INEZ: Not in me, perhaps‚Äî but how about this child? Aren't you interested in her? Oh, I 
saw through your game; you got on your high horse just to impress her. 



GARCIN: I asked you to leave me in peace. There's someone talking about me in the 
newspaper office and I want to listen. And, if it'll make you any happier, let me tell you 
that I've no use for the "child," as you call her. 



ESTELLE: Thanks. 



GARCIN: Oh, I didn't mean it rudely. 



ESTELLE: You cad! 



GARCIN: So that's that. You know I begged you not to speak. 



ESTELLE: It's her fault; she started. I didn't ask anything of her and she came and 
offered me her-her glass. 



INEZ: So you say. But all the time you were making up to him, trying every trick to catch 
his attention. 



ESTELLE: Well, why shouldn't I? 



GARCIN: You're crazy, both of you. Don't you see where this is leading us? For pity's 
sake, keep your mouths shut. Now let's all sit down again quite quietly; we'll look at the 
floor and each must try to forget the others are there. 

INEZ: To forget about the others? How utterly absurd! I feel you there, in every pore. 
Your silence clamors in my ears. You can nail up your mouth, cut your tongue out‚Äî but 
you can't prevent your being there. Can you stop your thoughts? I hear them ticking away 
like a clock, tick-tock, tick-tock, and I'm certain you hear mine. It's all very well skulking 
on your sofa, but you're everywhere, and every sound comes to me soiled because you've 



intercepted it on its way. Why, you've even stolen my face; you know it and I don't ! And 
what about her, about Estelle? You've stolen her from me, too; if she and I were alone do 
you suppose she'd treat me as she does? No, take your hands from your face, I won't 
leave you in peace‚Äî that would suit your book too well. You'd go on sitting there, in a 
sort of trance, like a yogi, and even if I didn't see her I'd feel it in my bones‚Äî that she was 
making every sound, even the rustle of her dress, for your benefit, throwing you smiles 
you didn't see.... Well, I won't stand for that, I prefer to choose my hell; I prefer to look 
you in the eyes and fight it out face to face. 



GARCIN: Have it your own way. I suppose we were bound to come to this; they knew 
what they were about, and we're easy game. If they'd put me in a room with men‚Äî men 
can keep their mouths shut. But it's no use wanting the impossible. So I attract you, little 
girl? (Fondles her.) It seems you were making eyes at me? 



ESTELLE: Don't touch me. 



GARCIN: Why not? We might, anyhow, be natural... Do you know, I used to be mad 
about women? And some were fond of me. So we may as well stop posing, we've nothing 
to lose. Why trouble about politeness, and decorum, and the rest of it? We're between 
ourselves. And presently we shall be naked as ‚Äî as newborn babes. 



ESTELLE: Oh, let me be! 



GARCIN: As newborn babes. Well, I'd warned you, anyhow. I asked so little of you, 
nothing but peace and a little silence. I'd put my fingers in my ears. Gomez was spouting 
away as usual, standing in the center of the room, with all the pressmen listening. In their 
shirt-sleeves. I tried to hear, but it wasn't easy. Things on earth move so quickly, you 
know. Couldn't you have held your tongues? Now it's over, he's stopped talking, and 
what he thinks of me has gone back into his head. Well, we've got to see it through 
somehow. ..Naked as we were born. So much the better; I want to know whom I have to 
deal with. 



INEZ: You know already. There's nothing more to learn. 



GARCIN: You're wrong. So long as each of us hasn't made a clean breast of it‚Äî why 
they've damned him or her‚Äî we know nothing. Nothing that counts. You, young lady, 
you shall begin. Why? Tell us why. If you are frank, if we bring our specters into the 
open, it may save us from disaster. So- out with it! Why? 



ESTELLE: I tell you I haven't a notion. They wouldn't tell me why. 



GARCIN: That's so. They wouldn't tell me, either. But I've a pretty good idea... Perhaps 
you're shy of speaking first? Right. I'll lead off. I'm not a very estimable person. 



INEZ: No need to tell us that. We know you were a deserter. 



GARCIN: Let that be. It's only a side-issue. I'm here because I treated my wife 
abominably. That's all. For five years. Naturally, she's suffering still. There she is: the 
moment I mention her, I see her. It's Gomez who interests me, and it's she I see. Where's 
Gomez got to? For five years. There! They've given her back my things; she's sitting by 
the window, with my coat on her knees. The coat with the twelve bullet-holes. The 
blood's like rust; a brown ring round each hole. It's quite a museum-piece, that coat; 
scarred with history. And I used to wear it, fancy! ... Now, can't you shed a tear, my love! 
Surely you'll squeeze one out‚Äî at last? No? You can't manage it? ... Night after night I 
came home blind drunk, stinking of wine and women. She'd sat up for me, of course. But 
she never cried, never uttered a word of reproach. Only her eyes spoke. Big, tragic eyes. I 
don't regret anything. I must pay the price, but I shan't whine.... It's snowing in the street. 
Won't you cry, confound you? That woman was a born martyr, you know; a victim by 
vocation. 



INEZ: Why did you hurt her like that? 



GARCIN: It was so easy. A wored was enough to make her flinch. Like a sensitive-plant. 
But never, never a reproach. I'm fond of teasing. I watched and waited. But no, not a tear, 
not a protest. I'd picked her up out of the gutter, you understand... Now she's stroking the 
coat. Her eyes are shut and she's feeling with her fingeres for the bullet-holes. What are 
you after? What do you expect? I tell you I regret nothing. The truth is, she admired me 
too much. Does that mean anything to you? 



INEZ: No. Nobody admired me. 



GARCIN: So much the better. So much the better for you. I suppose all this trikes you as 
very vague. Well, here's something hou can get your teeth into. I brought a half-caste girl 
to stay in our house. My wife slept upstairs; she must have heard‚Äî everything. She was 
an early riser and, as I and the girl stayed in bed late, she served us our morning coffee. 



INEZ: You brute! 



GARCIN: Yes, a brute, if you like. But a well-beloved brute. (Far-away look comes to 
his eyes.) No, it's nothing. Only Gomez, and he's not talking about me... What were you 
saying? Yes, a brute. Certainly. Else why should I be here? Your turn. 



INEZ: Well, I was what some people down there called " a damned bitch." Damned 
already. So it's no surprise, being here. 



GARCIN: Is that all you have to say? 



INEZ: No. There was that affair with Florence. A dead men's tale. With three corpses to 
it. He to start with; the she and I. So there's no one left. I've nothing to worry about; it 
was a clean sweep. Only that room. I see it now and then. Empty, with the doors 
locked.... No, they've just unlocked them. "To Let." It's to let; there's a notice on the door, 
that's ‚Äî too ridiculous. 



GARCIN: Three. Three deaths, you said? 



INEZ: Three. 



GARCIN: One man and two women? 



INEZ: Yes. 



GARCIN: Well, well. Did he kill himself? 



INEZ: He? No, he hadn't the guts for that. Still, he'd every reason; we led him a dog's life. 
As a matter of fact, he was run over by a tram. A silly sort of end... I was living with 
them; he was my cousin. 



GARCIN: Was Florence fair? 



INEZ: Fair? You know, I don't regret a thing; still, I'm not so very keen on telling you the 
story. 



GARCIN: That's all right So you got sick of him? 



INEZ: Quite gradually. All sorts of little things got on my nerves. For instance, he made a 
noise when he was drinking‚Äî a sort of gurgle. Trifles like that. He was rather pathetic 
really. Vulnerable. Why are you smiling? 



GARCIN: Because I, anyhow, am not vulnerable. 



INEZ: Don't be too sure... I crept inside her skin, she saw the world through my eyes. 
When she left him, I had her on my hands. We shared a bed-sitting-room at the other end 
of the town. 



GARCIN: And then? 



INEZ: Then that tram did its job. I used to remind her every day: "Yes, my pet, we killed 
him between us." I'm rather cruel, really. 



GARCIN: So am I. 



INEZ: No, you're not cruel. It's something else. 



GARCIN: What? 



INEZ: I'll tell you later. When I say I'm cruel, I mean I can't get on without making 
people suffer. Like a live coal. A livek coal in others' hearts. When I'm alone I flicker out. 
For six months I flamed away in her heart, till there was nothing but a cinder. One night 
she got up and turned on the gas while I was asleep. Then she crept back into bed. So 
now you know. 



GARCIN: Well! Well! 



INEZ: Yes? What's in your mind? 

GARCIN: Nothing. Only that it's not a pretty story 

INEZ: Obviously. But what matter? 

GARCIN: As you say, what matter? Your turn. What have you done. 

ESTELLE: As I told you, I haven't a notion. I rack my brain, but it's no use. 



GARCIN: Right. Then we'll give you a hand. That fellow with the smashed face, who 
was he? 



ESTELLE: Who‚Äî who do you mean? 

INEZ: You know quite well. The man you were so scared of seeing when you came in. 

ESTELLE: Oh, him! A friend of mine. 

GARCIN: Why were you afraid of him? 

ESTELLE: That's my business, Mr. Garcin. 

INEZ: Did he shoot himself on your account? 

ESTELLE: Of course not. How absurd you are! 



GARCIN: Then why should you have been so scared? He blew his brains out, didn't he? 
That's how his face got smashed. 



ESTELLE: Don't! Please don't go on. 



GARCIN: Because of you. Because of you. 
INEZ: He shot himself because of you. 



ESTELLE: Leave me alone! It's ‚Äî it's not fair, bullying me like that. I want to go! I want 
to go! 



GARCIN: Go if you can. Personally, I ask for nothing better. Unfortunately the door's 
locked. 



ESTELLE: You're hateful, both of you. 



INEZ: Hateful? Yes, that's the word. Now get on with it. That fellow who killed himself 
on your account‚Äî you were his mistress, eh? 



GARCIN: Of course she was. And he wanted to have her to himself alone. That's so, isn't 
it? 



INEZ: He danced the tango like a professional, but he was poor as a church mouse- 
that's right, isn't it? 



GARCIN: Was he poor or not? Give a straight answer. 
ESTELLE: Yes, he was poor. 



GARCIN: And then you had your reputation to keep up. One day he came and implored 
you to run away with him, and you laughed in his face. 



INEZ: That's it. You laughed at him. And so he killed himself. 
ESTELLE: Did you use to look at Florence in that way? 



INEZ: Yes. 

ESTELLE: You've got it all wrong, you two. He wanted me to have a baby. So there! 

GARCIN: And you didn't want one? 



ESTELLE: I certainly didn't. But the baby came, worse luck. I went to Switzerland for 
five months. No one knew anything. It was a girl. Roger was with me when she was born. 
It pleased him no end, having a daughter. It didn't please me! 



GARCIN: And then? 



ESTELLE: There was a balcony overlooking the lake. I brought a big stone. He could see 
what I was up to and he kept on shouting: "Estelle, for God's sake, don't!" I hated him 
then. He saw it all. He was leaning over the balcony and he saw the rings spreading on 
the water‚Äî 



GARCIN: Yes? And then? 



ESTELLE: That's all. I came back to Paris‚Äî and he did as he wished. 



GARCIN: You mean he blew his brains out? 



ESTELLE: It was absurd of him, really, my husband never suspected anything. Oh, how I 
loathe you ! 



GARCIN: Nothing doing. Tears don't flow in this place. 

ESTELLE: I'm a coward. A coward! If you knew how I hate you! 

INEZ: Poor child! So the hearing's over. But there's no need to look like a hanging judge. 



GARCIN: A hanging judge? I'd give a lot to be able to see myself in a glass. How hot it 
is! (Takes off coat.) Oh, sorry! (Puts it on again.) 



ESTELLE: Don't bother. You can stay in your shirt-sleeves. As things are- 

GARCIN: Just so. You mustn't be angry with me, Estelle. 

ESTELLE: I'm not angry with you. 

INEZ: And what about me? Are you angry with me? 

ESTELLE: Yes. 



INEZ: Well, Mr. Garcin, now you have us in the nude all right. Do your understand 
things any better for that? 



GARCIN: I wonder. Yes, perhaps a trifle better. And now I suppose we start trying to 
help each other. 



INEZ: I don't need help. 



GARCIN: Inez, they've laid their snare damned cunningly‚Äî like a cobweb. If you make 
any movement, if you raise your hand to fan yourself, Estelle and I feel a little tug. 
Alone, none of us can save himself or herself; we're linked together inextricably. So you 
can take your choice. Hullo? What's happening? 



INEZ: They've let it. The windows are wide open, a man is sitting on my bed. MY bed, if 
you please! They've let it, let it! Step in, step in, make yourself at home, you brute! Ah, 
there's a woman, too. She's going up to him, putting her hands on his shoulders. ..Damn it, 
why don't they turn the lights on? It's getting dark. Now he's going to kiss her. But that's 
my room, MY room! Pitch-dark now. I can't see anything, but I hear them whispering, 
whispering. Is he going to make love to her on MY bed? What's that she said? That it's 
noon and the sun is shining? I must be going blind. Blacked out. I can't see or hear a 
thing. So I'm done with the earth, it seems. No more alibis for me! I feel so empty, 
desiccated‚Äî really dead at last. All of me's here, in this room. What were you saying? 



Something about helping me, wasn't it? 

GARCIN: Yes. 

INEZ: Helping me to do what? 

GARCIN: To defeat their devilish tricks. 

INEZ: And what do you expect me to do in return? 

GARCIN: To help ME. It only needs a little effort, Inez; just a spark of human feeling. 

INEZ: Human feeling. That's beyond my range. I'm rotten to the core. 

GARCIN: And how about me? All the same, suppose we try? 



INEZ: It's no use. I'm all dried up. I can't give and I can't receive. How could I help you? 
A dead twig, ready for the burning. FLorence was fair, a natural blonde. 



GARCIN: Do your realize that this young woman's fated to be your torturer? 
INEZ: Perhaps I've guessed it. 



GARCIN: It's through her they'll get you. I, of course, I'm different‚Äî aloof. I take no 
notice of her. Suppose you had a try‚Äî 



INEZ: Yes? 



GARCIN: It's a trap. They're watching you, to see if you'll fall into it. 



INEZ: I know. And you're another trap. Do you think they haven't foreknown every word 
you say? And of course there's a whole nest of pitfalls that we can't see. Everything here's 



a booby-trap. But what do I care? I'm a pitfall, too. For her, obviously. And perhaps I'll 
catch her. 



GARCIN: You won't catch anything. We're chasing after each other, round and round in 
a vicious circle, like the horses on a roundabout. That's part of their plan, of course... 
Drop it, Inez. Open your hands and let go of everything. Or else you'll bring disaster on 
all three of us. 



INEZ: Do I look the sort of person who lets go? I know what's coming to me. I'm going 
to burn, and it's to last forever. Yes, I KNOW everything. But do you think I'll let go? I'll 
catch her, she'll see you through my eyes, as Florence saw that other man. What's the 
good of trying to enlist my sympathy? I assure you I know everything, and I can't feel 
sorry even for myself. A trap ! Don't I know it, and that I'm in a trap myself, up to the 
neck, and there's nothing to be done about it? ANd if it suits their book, so much the 
better! 



GARCIN: Well, I, anyhow, can feel sorry for you, too. Look at me, we're naked, naked 
right through, and I can see into your heart. That's one link between us. Do you think I'd 
want to hurt you? I don't regret anything, I'm dried up, too. But for you I can still feel 
pity. 



INEZ: Don't. I hate being pawed about. And keep your pity for yourself. Don't forget, 
Garcin, that there are traps for you, too, in this room. AL1 nicely set for you. You'd do 
better to watch your own interests. But, if you will elave us in peace, this child and me, 
I'll see I don't do you any harm. 



GARCIN: Very well. 
ESTELLE: Please, Garcin. 
GARCIN: What do you want of me? 
ESTELLE: You can help ME, anyhow. 
GARCIN: If you want help, apply to her. 



ESTELLE: I implore you, Garcin‚Äî you gave me your promise, didn't you? Help me 
quick. I don't want to be left alone. Olga's taken him to a cabaret. 



INEZ: Taken whom? 



ESTELLE: Peter.. ..Oh, now they're dancing together. 



INEZ: Who's Peter? 



ESTELLE: Such a silly boy. He called me his glancing stream‚Äî just fancy! He was 
terribly in love with me... She's persuaded him to come out with her tonight. 



INEZ: Do you love him? 



ESTELLE: They're sitting down now. She's puffing like a grampus. What a fool the girl 
is to insist on dancing! But I dare say she does it to reduce.. .No, of course I don't love 
him. He's only eighteen, and I'm not a baby-snatcher. 



INEZ: Then why bother about them? What difference does it make? 

ESTELLE: He belonged to me. 

INEZ: Nothing on earth belongs to you any more. 

ESTELLE: I tell you he was mine. All mine. 



INEZ: Yes, he was yours‚Äî once. But now‚Äî try to make him hear, try to touch him. Olga 
can touch him, talk to him as much as she likes. That's so, isn't it? She can squeeze his 
hands, rub herself against him‚Äî 



ESTELLE: Yes, look! She's pressing her great fat chest against him, puffing and blowing 
his his face. But, my poor little lamb, can't you see how ridiculous she is? Why don't you 
laugh at her? Oh, once I'd have only had to glance at them and she'd have slunk away. Is 
there really nothing, nothing left of me? 



INEZ: Nothing whatever. Nothing of you's left on earth‚Äî not even a shadow. All you 
own is here. Would you like that paper-knife? Or that ornament on the mantelpiece? That 
blue sofa's yours. And I, my dear, am yours forever. 



ESTELLE: You mine! That's good! Well, which of you two would dare to call me his 
glancing stream, his crystal girl? You know too much about me, you know I'm rotten 
through and through... Peter, dear, think of me, fix your thoughts on me, and save me. All 
the time you're thinking "my glancing stream, his crystal girl," I'm only half here. I'm 
only half wicked, and half of me is down there with you, clean and bright and crystal- 
clear as running water.. .Oh, just look at her face, all scarlet, like a tomato. No, it's absurd, 
we've laughed at her together, you and I, often and often... What's that tune? ‚Äî I always 
loved it. Yes, the "St. Louis Blues".... All right, dance away, dance away. Garcin, I wish 
you could see her, you'd die of laughing. Only‚Äî she'll never know I SEE her. Yes, I see 
you, Olga, with your hair all anyhow, and you do look like a dope, my dear. Oh, now 
you're treading on his toes. It's a scream! Hurry up! Quicker! Quicker! He's dragging her 
along, bundling her round and round‚Äî it's too ghastly! He always said I was so light, he 
loved to dance with me. I tell you, Olga, I can see you. No, she doesn't care, she's dancing 
through my gaze. What's that? What's that you said? "Our poor dear Estelle"? Oh, don't 
be such a humbug! You didn't even shed a tear at the funeral... And she has the nerve to 
talk to him about her poor dear friend Estelle! How dare she discuss me with Peter? Now 
then, keep time. She never could dance and talk at once. Oh, what's that? No, no. Don't 
tell him. Please, please don't tell him. You can keep him, do what you like with him, but 
please don't tell him about‚Äî that! All right. You can have him now. Isn't it FOUL, 
Garcin? She's told him everything, about Roger, my trip to Switzerland, the baby. "Poor 
Estelle wasn't exactly‚Äî" "No, I wasn't exactly‚Äî True enough. He's looking grave, 
shaking his head, but he doesn't seem so much surprised, not what one would expect. 
Keep him then‚Äî I won't haggle with you over his long eyelashes, his pretty girlish face. 
They're yours for the asking. His glancing stream, his crystal. Well, the crystal's shattered 
into bits. "Poor Estelle!" Dance, dance, dance. On with it. But do keep time. One, two. 
One, two. How I'd love to go down to earth for just a moment, and dance with him again. 
The music's growing fainter. They've turned down the lights, as they do for a tango. Why 
are they playing so softly? Louder, please. I can't hear. It's so far away, so far away. I‚Äî I 
can't hear a sound. All over. It's the end. The earth has left me. Don't turn from me‚Äî 
please. Take me in your arms. 



INEZ: Now then, Garcin! 

GARCIN: It's to her you should say that. 



ESTELLE: Don't turn away. You're a man, aren't you, and surely I'm not a fright as all 
that! Everyone says I've lovely hair and after all, a man killed himself on my account. 
You have to look at something, and there's nothing here to see except the sofas and that 



awful ornament and the table. Surely I'm better to look at that an lot of stupid furniture. 
Listen! I've dropped out of their heart like a little sparrow fallen from its nest. So gather 
me up, dear, fold me to your heart‚Äî and you'll see how nice I can be. 



GARCIN: I tell you it's to that lady you should speak. 
ESTELLE: To her? But she doesn't count, she's a woman. 



INEZ: Oh, I don't count? Is that what you think? But, my poor little fallen nestling, 
you've been sheltering in my heart for ages, though you didn't realize it. Don't be afraid; 
I'll keep looking at you for ever and ever, without a flutter of my eyelids, and you'll live 
in my gaze like a mote in a sunbeam. 



ESTELLE: A sunbeam indeed! Don't talk such rubbish! You've tried that trick already, 
and you should know it doesn't work. 



INEZ: Estelle! My glancing stream! My crystal! 



ESTELLE: YOUR crystal? It's grotesque. Do you think you can fool me with that sort of 
talk? Everyone know by now what I did to my baby. The crystal's shattered, but I don't 
care. I'm just a hollow dummy, all that's left of me is the outside‚Äî but it's not for you. 



INEZ: Come to me, Estelle. You shall be whatever you like: a glancing stream, a muddy 
stream. And deep down in my eyes you'll see yourself just as you want to be. 



ESTELLE: Oh, leave me in peace. You haven't any eyes. Oh, damn it, isn't there 
anything I can do to get rid of you? I've an idea. (Spits in Garcin's face.) There! 



INEZ: Garcin, you shall pay for this. 
GARCIN: So it's a man you need? 
ESTELLE: Not any man. You. 



GARCIN: No humbug now. Any man would do your business. As I happen to be here, 
you want me. Right! Mind, I'm not your sort at all, really; I'm not a young nincompoop 
and I don't dance the tango. 



ESTELLE: I'll take you as you are. And perhaps I shall change you. 

GARCIN: I doubt it. I shan't pay much attention; I've other things to think about. 

ESTELLE: What things? 

GARCIN: They wouldn't interest you. 



ESTELLE: I'll sit on your sofa and wait for you to take some notice of me. I promise not 
to bother you at all. 



INEZ: That's right, fawn on him, like the silly bitch you are. Grovel and cringe! And he 
hasn't even good looks to commend him! 



ESTELLE: Don't listen to her. She has no eyes, no ears. She's‚Äî nothing. 



GARCIN: I'll give you what I can. It doesn't amount to much. I shan't love you; I know 
you too well. 



ESTELLE: Do you want me, anyhow? 



GARCIN: Yes. 



ESTELLE: I ask no more. 



GARCIN: In that case- 



INEZ: Estelle! Garcin! You must be going crazy. You're not alone. I'm here too. 



GARCIN: Of course- but what does it matter? 
INEZ: Under my eyes? You couldn't‚Äî couldn't do it. 
ESTELLE: Why not? I often undressed with my maid looking on. 
INEZ: Let her alone. Don't paw her with your dirty man's hands. 



GARCIN: Take care. I'm no gentleman, and I'd have no compunction about striking a 
woman. 



INEZ: But you promised me; you promised. I'm only asking you to keep your word. 
GARCIN: Why should I, considering you were the first to break our agreement? 



INEZ: Very well, have it your own way. I'm the weaker party, one against two. But don't 
forget I'm here, and watching. I shan't take my eyes off you, Garcin; when you're kissing 
her, you'll feel them boring into you. Yes, have it your own way, make love and get it 
over. We're in hell; my turn will come. 



GARCIN: Now then. Your lips. Give me your lips. 
ESTELLE: Really! Didn't I tell you not to pay attention to her? 



GARCIN: You've got it wrong. It's Gomez; he's back in the press-room. They've shut the 
windows; it must be winter down there. Six months since I‚Äî Well, I warned you I'd be 
absent-minded sometimes, didn't I? They're shivering, they've kept their coats on. Funny 
they should feel the cold like that, when I'm feeling so hot. Ah, this time he's talking 
about me. 



ESTELLE: Is it going to last long? You might at least tell me what he's saying. 



GARCIN: Nothing. Nothing worth repeating. He's a swine, that's all. A god-damned 
bloody swine. Let's come back to‚Äî to ourselves. Are you going to love me? 



ESTELLE: I wonder now! 



GARCIN: Will you trust me? 



ESTELLE: What a quaint thing to ask! Considering you'll be under my eyes all the time, 
and I don't think I've much to fear from Inez, so far as you're concerned. 



GARCIN: Obviously. I was thinking of another kind of trust. Talk away, talk away, you 
swine. I'm not there to defend myself. Estelle, you MUST give me your trust. 



ESTELLE: Oh, what a nuisance you are! I'm giving you my mouth, my arms, my whole 
body‚Äî and everything could be so simple.. .My trust! I haven't any to give, I'm afraid, and 
you're making me terribly embarrassed. You must have something pretty ghastly on your 
conscience to make such a fuss about my trusting you. 



GARCIN: They shot me. 

ESTELLE: I know. Because you refused to fight. Well, why shouldn't you? 



GARCIN: I‚Äî I didn't exactly refuse. I must say he talks well, he makes out a good case 
against me, but he never says what I should have done instead. Should I have gone to the 
general and said: "General, I decline to fight"? A mug's game; they'd have promptly 
locked me up. But I wanted to show my colors, my true colors, do you understand? I 
wasn't going to be silenced. So I‚Äî I took the train.... They caught me at the frontier. 



ESTELLE: Where were you trying to go? 



GARCIN: To Mexico. I meant to launch a pacifist newspaper down there. Well, why 
don't you speak? 



ESTELLE: What could I say? You acted quite rightly, as you didn't want to fight. But, 
darling, how on earth can I guess what you want me to answer? 



INEZ: Can't you guess? Well, I can. He wants you to tell him that he bolted like a lion. 
For "bolt" he did, and that's what biting him. 



GARCIN: "Bolted," "went away,"‚Äî we won't quarrel over words. 



ESTELLE: But you had to run away. If you'd stayed they'd have sent you to jail, wouldn't 
they? 



GARCIN: Of course. Well, Estelle, am I a coward? 



ESTELLE: How can I say? Don't be so unreasonable, darling. I can't put myself in your 
skin. You must decide that for yourself. 



GARCIN: I can't decide. 



ESTELLE: Anyway, you must remember. You must have had reasons for acting as you 
did. 



GARCIN: I had. 



ESTELLE: Well? 



GARCIN: But were they the real reasons? 



ESTELLE: You've a twisted mind, that's your trouble. Plaguing yourself over such 
trifles ! 



GARCIN: I'd thought it all out, and I wanted to make a stand. But was that my real 
motive? 



INEZ: Exactly. That's the question. Was that your real motive? No doubt you argued it 
out with yourself, you weighed the pros and cons, you found good reasons for what you 
did. But fear and hatred and all the dirty little instincts one keeps dark‚Äî they're motives 
too. So carry on, Mr. Garcin, and try to be honest with yourself‚Äî for once. 



GARCIN: Do I really need you to tell me that? Day and night I paced my cell, from the 
window to the door, from the door to the window. I pried into my heart, I sleuthed myself 



like a detective. By the end of it I felt as if I'd given my whole life to introspection. But 
always I harked back to the one thing certain‚Äî that I had acted as I did, I'd taken that 
train to the frontier. But why? Why?Finally I thought: My death will settle it. If I face 
death courageously, I'll prove I am no coward. 



INEZ: And how did you face death? 



GARCIN: Miserably. Rottenly. Oh, it was only a physical lapse‚Äî that might happen to 
anyone; I'm not ashamed of it. Only everything's been left in suspense forever. Come 
here, Estelle. Look at me. I want to feel someone looking at me while they're talking 
about me on earth... I like green eyes. 



INEZ: Green eyes! Just hark to him! And you, Estelle, do you like cowards? 



ESTELLE: If you knew how little I care! Coward or hero, it's all one‚Äî provided he kisses 
well. 

GARCIN: There they are, slumped in their chairs, sucking at their cigars. Bored they 
look. Half-asleep. They're thinking: "Garcin's a coward." But only vaguely, dreamily. 
One's got to think of something. "That chap Garcin was a coward." That's what they've 
decided, those dear friends of mine. In six months'time they'll be saying: "Cowardly as 
that skunk Garcin." You're lucky, you two; no one on earth is giving you another thought. 
But I‚Äî I'm long in dying. 



INEZ: What about your wife, Garcin? 

GARCIN: Oh, didn't I tell you? She's dead. 

INEZ: Dead? 

GARCIN: Yes, she died just now. About two months ago. 

INEZ: Of grief? 



GARCIN: What else should she die of? So all is for the best, you see; the war's over, my 
wife's dead, and I've carved out my place in history. 



ESTELLE: My poor darling! Look at me. Please look. Touch me. Touch me. There! 
Keep your hand there. No, don't move. Why trouble what those men are thinking? They'll 
die off one by one. Forget them. There's only me, now. 



GARCIN: But THEY won't forget me, not they! They'll die, but others will come after 
them to carry on the legend. I've left my fate in their hands. 



ESTELLE: You think too much, that's your trouble. 



GARCIN: What else is there to do now? I was a man of action once... Oh, if only I could 
be with them again, for just one day‚Äî I'd fling their lie in their teeth. But I'm locked out; 
they're passing judgment on my life without troubling about me, and they're right, 
because I'm dead. Dead and done with. A back number. 



ESTELLE: Garcin. 



GARCIN: Still there? Now listen! I want you to do me a service. No, don't shrink away. I 
know it must seem strange to you, having someone asking you for help; you're not used 
to that. But if you'll make the effort, if you'll only WILL it hard enough, I dare say we 
can really love each other. Look at it this way. A thousand of them are proclaiming I'm a 
coward; but what do numbers matter? If there's someone, just one person, to say quite 
positively I did not run away, that I'm not the sort who runs away, that I'm brave and 
decent and the rest of it‚Äî well, that one person's faith would save me. Will you have that 
faith in me? Then I shall love you and cherish you for ever. Estelle‚Äî will you? 



ESTELLE: Oh, you dear silly man, do you think I could love a coward? 
GARCIN: But just now you said- 



ESTELLE: I was only teasing you. I like men, my dear, who're real men, with tough skin 
and strong hands. You haven't a coward's chin, or a coward's mouth, or a coward's voice, 
or a coward's hair. And it's for your mouth, your hair, your voice, I love. 



GARCIN: Do you mean this? REALLY mean it? 



ESTELLE: Shall I swear it? 



GARCIN: Then I snap my fingers at them all, those below and those in here. Estelle, we 
shall climb out of hell. (Inez laughs.) What's that? 



INEZ: But she doesn't mean a word of what she says. How can you be such a simpleton? 
"Estelle, am I a coward?" As if she cared a damn either way. 



ESTELLE: Inez, how dare you? Don't listen to her. If you want me to have faith in you, 
you must begin by trusting me. 



INEZ: That's right! That's right! Trust away! She wants a man‚Äî that far you can trust her- 
- she wants a man's arm round her waist, a man's smell, a man's eyes glowing with desire. 
And that's all she wants. She'd assure you you were God Almighty if she thought it would 
give you pleasure. 



GARCIN: Estelle, is it true? Answer me. Is it true? 



ESTELLE: What do you expect me to say? Don't you realize how maddening it is to have 
to answer questions one can't make head or tail of? You do make things 
difficult.. .Anyhow, I'd love you just the same, even if you were a coward. Isn't that 
enough? 



GARCIN: You disgust me, both of you. 
ESTELLE: What are you up to? 
GARCIN: I'm going. 

INEZ: You won't get far. The door is locked. 
GARCIN: I'll MAKE them open it. 



ESTELLE: Please! Please! 



INEZ: Don't worry, my pet. The bell doesn't work. 



GARCIN: I tell you they shall open. I can't endure it any longer, I'm through with you 
both. Go away.(to Estelle) You're even fouler than she. I won't let myself get bogged in 
your eyes. You're soft and slimy. Ugh! Like an octopus. Like a quagmire. 



ESTELLE: I beg you, oh, I beg you not to leave me. I'll promise not to speak again, I 
won't trouble you in any way‚Äî but don't go. I daren't be left alone with Inez, now she's 
shown her claws. 



GARCIN: Look after yourself. I never asked you to come here. 
ESTELLE: Oh, how mean you are! Yes, it's quite true you're a coward. 



INEZ: Well, my little sparrow fallen from the nest, I hope you're satisfied now. You spat 
in my face‚Äî playing up to him, of course‚Äî and we had a tiff on his account. But he's 
going, and a good riddance it will be. We two women will have the place to ourselves. 



ESTELLE: You won't gain anything. If that door opens, I'm going too. 



INEZ: Where? 



ESTELLE: I don't care where. As far from you as I can. 



GARCIN: Open the door! Open, blast you! I'll endure anything, your red-hot tongs and 
molten lead, your racks and prongs and garrotes‚Äî all your fiendish gadgets, everything 
that burns and flays and tears‚Äî I'll put up with any torture you impose. Anything, 
anything would be better than this agony of mind, this creeping pain that gnaws and 
fumbles and caresses one and never hurts quite enough. Now will you open? (THE 
DOOR FLIES OPEN: a long silence.) 



INEZ: Well, Garcin? You're free to go. 



GARCIN: Now I wonder why that door opened. 
INEZ: What are you waiting for? Hurry up and go. 
GARCIN: I shall not go. 



INEZ: And you, Estelle? So what? Which shall it be? Which of the three of us will leave? 
The barrier's down, why are we waiting? But what a situation! It's a scream! We're 
inseparables ! 



ESTELLE: Inseparables? Garcin, come and lend a hand. Quickly. We'll push her out and 
slam the door on her. That'll teach her a lesson. 



INEZ:(Struggling with Inez) Estelle, I beg you, let me stay. I won't go, I won't go! Not 
into the passage. 



GARCIN: Let go of her. 

ESTELLE: You're crazy. She hates you. 

GARCIN: It's because of her I'm staying here. 



INEZ: Because of me? All right, shut the door. It's ten times hotter here since it opened. 
Because of me, you said? 



GARCIN: Yes. YOU, anyhow, know what it means to be a coward. 
INEZ: Yes, I know. 



GARCIN: And you know what wickedness is, and shame, and fear. There were days 
when you peered into yourself, into the secret places of your heart, and what you saw 
there made you faint with horror. And then, next day, you didn't know what to make of it, 
you couldn't interpret the horror you had glimpsed the day before. Yes, you know what 
evil costs. And when you say I'm a coward, you know from experience what that means. 



Is that so? 



INEZ: Yes. 



GARCIN: So it's you whom I have to convince; you are of my kind. Did you suppose I 
meant to go? No, I couldn't leave you here, gloating over my defeat, with all those 
thoughts about me running in your head. 



INEZ: Do you really wish to convince me? 



GARCIN: That's the one and only thing I wish for now. I can't hear them any longer, you 
know. Probably that means they're through with me. For good and all. The curtain's 
down, nothing of me is left on earth‚Äî not even the name of coward. So, Inez, we're alone. 
Only you two remain to give a thought to me. She- she doesn't count. It's you who matter; 
you who hate me. If you'll have faith in me I'm saved. 



INEZ: It won't be easy. Have a look at me. I'm a hard-headed woman. 
GARCIN: I'll give you all the time that's needed. 
INEZ: Yes, we've lots of time in hand. ALL time. 



GARCIN: Listen! Each man has an aim in life, a leading motive; that's so, isn't it? Well, I 
didn't give a damn for wealth, or for love. I aimed at being a real man. A tough, as they 
say. I staked everything on the same horse... Can one possibly be a coward when one's 
deliberately courted danger at every turn? And can judge a life by a single action? 



INEZ: Why not? For thirty years you dreamt you were a hero, and condoned a thousand 
petty lapses‚Äî because a hero, of course, can do no wrong. An easy method, obviously. 
Then a day came when you were up against it, the red light of real danger‚Äî and you took 
the train to Mexico. 



GARCIN: I "dreamt," you say. It was no dream. When I chose the hardest path, I made 
my choice deliberately. A man is what he wills himself to be. 



INEZ: Prove it. Prove it was no dream. It's what one does, and nothing else, that shows 
the stuff one's made of. 



GARCIN: I died too soon. I wasn't allowed time to‚Äî to do my deeds. 



INEZ: One always dies too soon‚Äî or too late. And yet one's whole life is complete at that 
moment, with a line drawn neatly under it, ready for the summing up. You are‚Äî your life, 
and nothing else. 



GARCIN: What a poisonous woman you are! With an answer for everything. 



INEZ: Now then! Don't lose heart. It shouldn't be so hard, convincing me. Pull yourself 
together , man, rake up some arguments. Ah, wasn't I right when I said you were 
vulnerable? Now you're going to pay the price, and what a price! You're a coward, 
Garcin, because I wish it! I wish it‚Äî do you hear?-- 1 wish it. And yet, just look at me, see 
how weak I am, a mere breath on the air, a gaze observing you, a formless thought that 
thinks you. Ah, they're open now, those big hands, those coarse, man's hands! But what 
do you hope to do? You can't throttle thoughts with hands. So you've no choice, you must 
convince me, and you're at my mercy. 



ESTELLE: Garcin! 

GARCIN: What? 

ESTELLE: Revenge yourself. 

GARCIN: How? 

ESTELLE: Kiss me, darling‚Äî then you'll hear her squeal. 

GARCIN: That's true, Inez. I'm at your mercy, but you're at mine as well. 

INEZ: Oh, you coward, you weakling, running to women to console you! 



ESTELLE: That's right, Inez. Squeal away. 



INEZ: What a lovely pair you make! If you could see his big paw splayed out on your 
back, rucking up your skin and creasing the silk. Be careful, though! He's perspiring, his 
hand will leave a blue stain on your dress. 



ESTELLE: Squeal away, Inez, squeal away!. ..Hug me tight, darling; tighter still‚Äî that'll 
finish her off, and a good thing too ! 



INEZ: Yes, Garcin, she's right. Carry on with it, press her to you till you feel your bodies 
melting into each other; a lump of warm, throbbing flesh... Loe's a grand solace, isn't it, 
my friend? Deep and dark as sleep. But I'll see you don't sleep. 



ESTELLE: Don't listen to her. Press your lips to my mouth. Oh, I'm yours, yours, yours. 



INEZ: Well, what are you waiting for? Do as you're told. What a lovely scene: coward 
Garcin holding baby-killer Estelle in his manly arms! Make your stakes, everyone. Will 
coward Garcin kiss the lady, or won't he dare? What's the betting? I'm watching you, 
everybody's watching, I'm a crowd all by myself. Do you hear the crowd? Do you hear 
them muttering, Garcin? "Coward!Coward!" ‚Äîthat's what they're saying.. .It's no use 
trying to escape, I'll never let you go. What do you hope to get from her silly lips? 
Forgetfulness? But I shan't forget you, not I! "It's I you must convince." So come to me. 
I'm waiting. Come along, now. ..Look how obedient he is, like a well-trained dog who 
comes when his mistress calls. You can't hold him, and you never will. 



GARCIN: Will night never come? 



INEZ: Never. 



GARCIN: You will always see me? 



INEZ: Always. 

GARCIN: This bronze. Yes, now's the moment; I'm looking at this thing on the 
mantelpiece, and I understand that I'm in hell. I tell you, everything's been thoughtout 
beforehand. They knew I'd stand at the fireplace stroking this thing of bronze, with all 
those eyes intent on me. Devouring me. What? Only two of you? I thought there were 



more; many more. So this is hell. I'd never have believed it. You remember all we were 
told about the torture-chambers, the fire and brimstone, the "burning marl." Old wives' 
tales! There's no need for red-hot pokers. HELL IS-OTHER PEOPLE! 



ESTELLE: My darling! Please- 

GARCIN: No, let me be. She is between us. I cannot love you when she's watching. 



ESTELLE: Right! In that case, I'll stop her watching. (She picks up the PAPER knife and 
stabs Inez several times.) 



INEZ: But, you crazy creature, what do you think you're doing? You know quite well I'm 
dead. 



ESTELLE: Dead? 



INEZ: Dead! Dead! Dead! Knives, poison, ropes‚Äî useless. It has happened already, do 
you understand? Once and for all. SO here we are, forever. 



ESTELLE: Forever. My God, how funny! Forever. 



GARCIN: For ever, and ever, and ever. 
(A long silence.) 



GARCIN: Well, well, let's get on with it... 

 THE
                            ROCKY HORROR
                            PICTURE SHOW

             A SCREENPLAY BY JIM SHARMAN AND RICHARD O'BRIEN

              Adapted from "The Rocky Horror Show" a musical
              with Book, Music & Lyrics by Richard O'Brien

  -----

1    THE FIRST IMAGE IS A SET OF RED VELVET CINEMA CURTAINS

     Soft Drum-Roll.

2    THEY SPLIT OPTICALLY TO REVEAL THE DISTRIBUTION COMPANY LOGO.

     Fanfare.

3    A SMALL WHITE SCREEN - ACADEMY SIZE - APPEARS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE 
     WIDE-SCREEN FORMAT

     On the sides of the image are stationary sprocket holes of celluloid.
     SCIENCE FICTION DOUBLE FEATURE * Musical Introduction.
     Film head runs down numbers:  10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, START.
     Very scratched.  During the SONG we see snatches of the films mentioned 
     in SONG.  They look old and scratched and they are INTERCUT with flashes 
     of white screen, burnt celluloid, etc.

     SONG:          "SCIENCE FICTION DOUBLE FEATURE"

4    THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL - THE END SEQUENCE OF THE ROBOT CARRYING 
     THE HERO

                         VOICE OVER
               Michael Rennie was ill.
               The day the earth stood still
               But he told us where we stand

                                        WIPE TO

5    FLASH GORDON - BUSTER CRABBE IN ACTION

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               And Flash Gordon was there
               In silver underwear.

                                        WIPE TO

6    THE INVISIBLE MAN - CLAUDE RAINS IN BANDAGES AND DARK GLASSES

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               Claude Rains was the invisible man.

                                        WIPE TO

7    KING KONG - EMPIRE STATE BUILDING SEQUENCE WITH FAY WRAY

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               Then something went wrong
               For Fay Wray and King Kong
               They got caught in a celluloid jam

                                        WIPE TO

8    IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE - GEODESIC GLOBE ECLIPSING THE EARTH

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               Then at a deadly pace
               It came from outer space
               And this is how the message ran

                                        WIPE TO

9    TITLE SEQUENCE - CAST AND WRITING CREDITS

                         CHORUS
               Science Fiction - double-feature
               Dr X will build a creature
               See Androids fighting Brad and Janet
               Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet
               Oh - at the late night, double-feature
               Picture Show.

                                        WIPE TO

10   TARANTULA - THE MUTATION SEQUENCE

                         VOICE OVER
               I knew Leo G. Carrol
               Was over a barrel
               When tarantula took to the hills

                                        WIPE TO

11   THE DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS - FIGHT IN THE LIGHTHOUSE

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               And I really got hot
               When I saw Jeanette Scott
               Fight a Triffid that spits poison and kills

                                        WIPE TO

12   THE NIGHT OF THE DEMON - SEQUENCE OF "RUNIC WRITING", FLYING INTO THE 
     FIRE

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               Dana Andrews said prunes
               Gave him the runes
               And passing them used lots of skills.

                                        WIPE TO

13   WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE - ROCKET INVASION SEQUENCE

                         VOICE OVER (Cont)
               And when worlds collide
               Said George Pal to his bride
               I'm going to give you some terrible trills
               Like a -

                                        WIPE TO

14   TITLE CONTINUED - TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION CREDITS

                         CHORUS
               Science Fiction - double-feature
               Dr X will build a creature
               See Androids fighting Brad and Janet
               Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet
               Oh - at the late-night, double-feature
               Picture Show
               By RKO O- Oh
               At the late-night, double-feature
               Picture Show
               In the back row
               At the late-night, double-feature
               Picture Show
               I want to go.

                                        DISSOLVE TO

15   EXT. A STILL FRAME OF A DENTON CATHOLIC CHURCH    DAY

                         CHORUS (Cont)
               To the late night double feature
               Picture Show.

     The SONG ends with church bells ringing joyously as the IMAGE EXPANDS TO 
     WIDE-SCREEN.  The STILL FRAME bursts to life as the doors of the Denton 
     Catholic Church are flung open and Mendelssohn's wedding march resounds 
     from the church organ.

     The young married couple, RALPH and BETTY HAPSCHATT appear followed by a 
     crowd of friends and well-wishers throwing confetti and shouting 
     excitedly.

     The MINISTER shakes RALPH by the hand while RALPH slips him a $20 bill.

     PHOTOGRAPHERS take pictures.

     BRAD MAJORS, a young slightly awkward, clean-cut American in his mid-
     twenties, comes over the congratulate RALPH.  BRAD and RALPH shake 
     hands.

                         RALPH
               Well Brad, I guess we made it huh!

                         BRAD
               Well I don't think there was any doubt
               about that - You and Betty have been
               almost inseparable ever since you sat
               in on Dr Scott's refresher lectures.

                         RALPH
               Tell you the truth Brad, she was the
               only reason I came in the first place.
               Science was never one of my favourite
               subjects but I sure with Dr Scott
               could have made it today.

                         BRAD
               Yes, Janet and I are both fond of him.
               We drove over to see him last vacation.
               It's a shame his new job took him away
               from Denton.

     BETTY, the bride, throws the bouquet.

     JANET catches it.  She squeals with delight.

     The GUESTS cheer.

                         RALPH
               Hey fella.  It looks like it could be
               your turn next.

                         BRAD
               Who knows...ha ha.

     RALPH & BETTY drive off.  GUESTS wave and shout, BRAD & JANET with great 
     enthusiasm.  GUESTS begin to disperse.

     JANET & BRAD linger outside the church.  So do a strange FAMILY :  An 
     old man with a pitchfork and his wife and daughter.  They resemble the 
     Quaker family in "American Gothic", a painting.

     The MOTHER (MAGENTA) and FATHER (RIFF RAFF) stand outside the church 
     doors.  Their DAUGHTER (COLUMBIA) goes inside.  The FAMILY, and the 
     MINISTER (FRANK N. FURTER), and the GUESTS all resemble characters we 
     shall meet later at the Frank N. Furter place.

                         JANET (who is holding the bouquet)
               Oh Brad, wasn't it wonderful. Didn't
               Betty look radiantly beautiful.  
               Just an hour ago she was plain old
               Betty Monroe.  Now she's Mrs. 
               Ralph Hapschatt.

                         BRAD (Still looking after the car)
               Er...yes, Janet.......Ralph's a 
               lucky guy.  (They start to move d.s.)

                         JANET
               Yes.

                         BRAD
               Everyone knows Betty's a wonderful 
               little cook.

                         JANET
               Yes.

                         BRAD
               And Ralph himself will be in line for 
               promotion in a year or so.

                         JANET
               Yes.

     FIRST CHORD OF "WEDDING SONG"

16   EXT. CHURCH    DAY

     "WEDDING SONG" (Silent playback for dialogue)

     With great decision BRAD turns on JANET

                         BRAD (spoken)
               Hey Janet.

                         JANET
               Yes Brad.

                         BRAD
               I've got something to say.

                         JANET
               Uh huh.

                         BRAD
               I really loved the skilful way
               You beat the other girls
               To the bride's bouquet.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad.

     (Singing begins)

                         BRAD
               The river was deep but I swam it.

                         FAMILY (Riff & Magenta)
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               The future is ours so let's plan it.

                         FAMILY (R & M)
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               So please don't tell me to can it.

                         FAMILY (R & M)
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               I've one thing to say and that's
               Dammit, Janet.
               I love you.

               The road was long but I ran it.
               (He runs backwards towards church doors)

                         FAMILY (Riff and Magenta)
               Janet.

                         BRAD (Climbing onto fence)
               There's a fire in my heart
               And you fan it.  (Jumps off)

                         FAMILY (Riff and Magenta)
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               If there's one fool for you
               Then I am it.

                         FAMILY (Riff and Magenta)
               Janet.

                         BRAD (Getting chalk from pocket)
               I've one thing to say and that's,
               Dammit, Janet.

     He chalks a heart and arrow on the church door, which Riff Raff proceeds 
     to wipe off.

                         BRAD
               I love you.

     JANET runs to him, he kneels and produces a ring.

                         BRAD
               Here's a ring to prove that
               I'm not joker.

     CHURCH BELLS Peal out.  RIFF & MAGENTA open doors and solemnly enter the 
     church, door closes behind them.

                         BRAD
               There's three ways that love can grow.
               That's good bad or mediocre.

     JANET grabs the ring as BRAD rises.  She throws down the bouquet and 
     would fall into BRAD's arms but he goes to the door to chalk on it 
     again.

                         BRAD
               Oh - J - A - N - E - T
               I love you so.

     JANET, transfixed, bursts into the church.

17   INT. CHURCH         DAY

     "WEDDING SONG"  Pt. 2

     JANET bursts into the church, hypnotised by the ring.  BRAD follows her.

                         JANET
               Oh!......It's nicer than
               Betty Munroe had

                         MAGENTA (Peering up from behind pew)
               Oh Brad.

                         JANET
               Now we're engaged and I'm so glad.

                         MAGENTA & COLUMBIA
               Oh Brad.  (Both peer up and disappear)

                         JANET
               That you met Mom
               And you know Dad.

                         WHOLE FAMILY
               Oh Brad.  (peering up together)

                         JANET (Taking his arm)
               I've one thing to say
               And that's, Brad
               I'm mad,
               For you too.

     BRAD & JANET start to walk d.s., arm in arm.

     the strange FAMILY march slowly across them l/r., in front.

                         JANET (Laying head on Brad's sh.)
               Oh, Brad.

                         BRAD
               Oh Dammit.

                         JANET (Caresses his cheek)
               I'm mad.....

                         BRAD
               Oh Janet

                         JANET
               For you.

                         BRAD (briefly kisses her)
               I love you too-oo-oo.

     BRAD takes JANET's hands, turning to her.  We are aware of THE FAMILY 
     bringing in coffin in b.g. through vestry door.

                         BRAD & JANET
               There's one thing left to do-ah-ooh

     (They separate)

                         BRAD
               And that's go see the man
               Who began it

                         FAMILY (Carrying coffin)
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               When we met in his science exam
               It -

     THE FAMILY move into position behind BRAD & JANET

                         FAMILY
               Janet.

                         BRAD
               Made me give you the eye
               And then panic,

                         FAMILY
               Janet

     FAMILY lower coffin onto floor.

                         BRAD
               I've got one thing to say, and that's
               Dammit,
               Janet.

               I love you.

     JANET runs to BRAD and he hugs her.

                         BRAD (Circling Janet)
               Dammit, Janet.

     JANET circles BRAD twice, admiring her ring on the way.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad,
               I'm mad.

                         BRAD
               Dammit, Janet.

     BRAD & JANET kneel together with each following word until they are 
     kneeling on the floor)

                         BRAD, JANET, FAMILY.
               I love you.

     BRAD & JANET kiss.

     The cross above spits optically.

18   INT. A STUDY   NIGHT

     Mahogany bookcases, a large desk with a prominent globe of the world.  A 
     well-padded armchair has its back to the camera.  It swings around 
     revealing the NARRATOR.  He is in his smoking jacket.  He speaks 
     directly to us.

                         NARRATOR
               I would like if I may to take you on a
               strange journey.

     He crosses to the bookshelf.  He selects a dossier.  We see the title: 
     "The Denton Affair".  He returns to his desk and places it on a 
     bookstand.  He puts on his reading glasses.

                         NARRATOR
               It seemed a fairly ordinary night when
               Brad Majors and his fiancee Janet Weiss
               (two young ordinary healthy kids) left
               Denton that late November evening to
               visit Dr Everett Scott, ex. tutor and
               now friend of both of them.  It's true 
               there were dark storm clouds, heavy, 
               black and pendulous, toward which they 
               were driving.  It's true also that the 
               spare tyre they were carrying was badly 
               in need of some air.  But they being 
               normal kids and on a night out, well 
               they were not going to let a storm 
               spoil the events of their evening.

               On a night out.

     He closes the book marking the place.

     Thunder is heard distantly on the sound track.

                         NARRATOR
               It was a night out they were going to
               remember for a very long time.

     Lighting cracks on the sound track.

                                        WIPE TO

19   EXT. NIGHT

     A windscreen wiper working under strain.  Torrential rain on the 
     windscreen.  BRAD concentrating on visibility.  JANET eating chocolates 
     and listening to the car radio playing an Orson Welles serial - The 
     Shadow.

     A motorcycle roars past them.

                         JANET
               Gosh.  That's the third motorcyclist
               that's passed us.  They certainly take
               their lives in their hands.  What with
               the weather and all.

                         BRAD
               Yes, Janet.  Life's pretty cheap to
               that type.

     JANET takes another stick of gum.

     Offers BRAD some.  He declines.

     The car slows to a halt.

                         JANET
               What's the matter Brad, darling?

     Headlights on sign reading: "DEAD END".

                         BRAD
               I think we took the wrong fork a few
               miles back.

                         JANET
               Oh dear!  But then where did the
               motorcyclists come from?

                         BRAD
               Hmmm ... Well, I guess we will have
               to turn back.

                                        CUT TO

20   EXT. ROAD NIGHT

     Car reverses.

     BRAD puts his foot on the accelerator.  The wheel skids and explodes.

                                        CUT TO

21   INT. CAR  NIGHT

                         JANET
               What was that bang?

                         BRAD
               We must have a blow-out.

                         JANET
               Oh...

     Pause

                                        CUT TO

22   EXT. ROAD NIGHT

     A bolt of lighting strikes a tree.

                                        CUT TO

23   INT. CAR  NIGHT

                         BRAD
               You'd better sit here and keep warm 
               while I go for help.

                         JANET
               But where will you go?  We're in the 
               middle of nowhere.

                         BRAD
               Didn't we pass a castle back down the
               road a few miles?  Maybe they have
               a telephone I might use.

     He unbuckles his seatbelt.

                         JANET
               I'm coming with you.

                         BRAD
               There's no point both of us getting wet.

                         JANET
               I'm coming with you.
                    (she unbuckles her seatbelt)
               Besides, darling, the owner of the phone
               might be a beautiful woman and you may
               never come back.

     BRAD laughs.

     A thunderclap.

     MUSIC commences and she alights from the car and follows him, newspaper 
     over her head.

                                        CUT TO

24   EXT. ROAD NIGHT

     SONG:          "OVER AT THE FRANKENSTEIN PLACE"

     The rain pours off the newspaper down JANET's face.  She walks along, 
     catching up with BRAD.

     She sing plaintively.

                         JANET
               In the velvet darkness
               Of the blackest night
               Burning bright.

     We see the two of them - BRAD striding ahead, JANET nearly catching up 
     with him.

     Behind them on the side of the road, sparse trees and rock formations.

                         JANET
               There's a guiding star
               No matter what or who you are.

     They have passed a row of trees.  A rock formation in the shape of a 
     castle is silhouetted against the sky.  It has a flag flying from the 
     turret.

     Lightning strikes.

     A glow of light appears in a window.  It illuminates a path to the 
     castle.

     BRAD and JANET turn.

     The castle is in the distance between the two of them.

                         BRAD & JANET
               There's a light

     The castle looms in the distance.

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               Over at the Frankenstein place.

     BRAD stares hard.

                         BRAD
               There's a light.

     The castle looms closer.

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               Burning in the fireplace.

                         JANET
                    (looks to Brad)
               There's a light, a light
               In the darkness of everybody's life

     Taking JANET by the hand, BRAD moves off the roadway towards the house.

                         BRAD
               I can see the flag fly
               I can see the rain
               Just the same
               There has got to be
               Something better here
               For you and me.

     Lighting strikes.

     JANET jumps towards BRAD.

                         BRAD & JANET
               There's a light.

     The castle seems to move forward.

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               Burning in the fireplace.

                         BRAD
               There's a light.

                                        CUT TO

25   EXT. CASTLE DRIVEWAY     NIGHT

     A motorcycle convoy roars by revealing a hidden road to the castle.

                         BRAD
               A light
               In the darkness of everybody's life.

     The convoy drives up and disappears into a secret entrance in the rock.

                                        CUT TO

26   EXT. CASTLE FACADE  NIGHT

     We see a cell-like window near a massive lighted window.  A tortured 
     face appears squinting into the darkness.

                         RIFF RAFF
               The darkness must go
               Down the river of nights dreaming
               Flow morphia slow
               Let the sun and light come streaming
               Into my life.

                                        CUT TO

27   EXT. SKY  NIGHT

     Lightning strikes.

                                        CUT TO

28   CASTLE FACADE  NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF moves to the lighted window where his hunchbacked shape 
     becomes a giant shadow.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Into my life.

                                        CUT TO

29   EXT. CASTLE DRIVE   NIGHT

     BRAD and JANET start moving down the driveway.

                         BRAD & JANET
               There's a light.

                                        CUT TO

30   CASTLE FACADE  NIGHT

     Shadow turns in the window.

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               Over at the Frankenstein place.

                                        CUT TO

31   EXT. CASTLE DRIVE   NIGHT

     BRAD and JANET approach the gateway to the castle.

                         BRAD & JANET
               There's a light.

                                        CUT TO

32   CASTLE FACADE  NIGHT

     The shadow slowly covers the whole window.

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               Burning in the fireplace.

                                        CUT TO

33   EXT. CASTLE DRIVE   NIGHT

                         PHANTOM VOICES
               There's a light, a light.

     BRAD and JANET are at the gate.  There is a rusted sign.

                         BRAD & JANET
               In the darkness of everybody's life.

     A bolt of lighting illuminates the sign which reads:  FRANK N. FURTER - 
     SCIENTIST.

                                        WIPE TO

34   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     The NARRATOR is in his armchair.  He leans forward with some urgency.

                         NARRATOR
               And so it seemed that fortune had smiled
               on Brad and Janet and that they had found
               the assistance that their plight required -
               or had they?

     Thunderclap.

                                        WIPE TO

35   EXT. FRONT DOOR OF THE CASTLE NIGHT

     BRAD rings the doorbell.  It makes a strange sound.

                         JANET
               Oh, Brad.  Let's go back.  I'm cold
               and I'm frightened.

                         BRAD
               Just a moment, Janet.  They may have
               a telephone.

     The door opens.  Throbbing music is heard in the background as if there 
     is a party going on in the distance.

     The figure we have seen at the window emerges.  He is a hunch-backed 
     servant, RIFF RAFF.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Hello.

                         BRAD
               Uh - oh - Hi!  My name is Brad Majors.
               And this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  I -
               ah - wondered if you could help us.  Our
               car has broken down about two miles up the
               road.  Do you have a phone we might use?

                         RIFF RAFF
               You're wet.

                         JANET
               Yes, the rain has been very heavy.

                         BRAD
               Yes.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Yes.

36   EXT. CASTLE    NIGHT

     A bolt of lighting illuminates a row of vehicles parked by the castle.

37   EXT. FRONT DOOR OF CASTLE     NIGHT

     BRAD sees them and reacts with surprise.

     RIFF RAFF realises BRAD has seen them.

                         RIFF RAFF
               I think you had better both come inside.

                         JANET
               You're too kind.

     They enter apprehensively.

                                        DISSOLVE

38   INT. STAIRWAY  NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF leads them down a stairway and beckons them to follow.

     The MUSIC has become louder.

                         JANET
                    (sotto voce)
               Oh Brad, I'm frightened.  What kind
               of place is this?

                         BRAD
                    (sotto voce)
               Oh, it's probably some kind of hunting
               lodge for rich weirdos.

                                        CUT TO

39   INT. HALLWAY   NIGHT

     They arrive at a hallway at the bottom of the stairs.  Another servant,
     MAGENTA, who bears a striking physical resemblance to RIFF RAFF is 
     vacuuming the stairs.

                         RIFF RAFF
               This way.

     JANET steps over the vacuum lead.

                         JANET
               Are you - giving a party?

                         RIFF RAFF
               No.  You've arrived on a rather special
               night.  It's one of the master's affairs.

                         JANET
               Oh, lucky him.

                         MAGENTA
               He's lucky.

     BRAD and JANET look at MAGENTA, surprised by her voice.

                         MAGENTA
               You're lucky, I'm lucky, we're all
               lucky.

40   SONG:          "THE TIME WARP"

     BRAD and JANET are rather unnerved by this outburst from the domestic.  
     They look back to RIFF RAFF.  He is now standing by a set of mirrors 
     reflecting to infinity.

                         RIFF RAFF
               It's astounding
               Time is fleeting
               Madness takes its toll
               But listen closely
               Not for very much longer
               I've got to keep control.

     MAGENTA gives RIFF RAFF a strange signal.

     RIFF RAFF starts to dance in an extraordinary fashion.

                         RIFF RAFF
               I remember doing the Time Warp.

     BRAD and JANET are amazed.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Drinking those moments when
               The blackness would hit me.

     MAGENTA half closes her eyes in pleasure.

     JANET clings to BRAD.

                         RIFF RAFF
               And the void would be calling.

     RIFF RAFF opens a set of double doors marked BALLROOM.

41   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     BRAD and JANET find themselves on a balcony of a huge black and silver
     ballroom.  At the furthest end is a throne-like chair and, surrounding 
     it, a theatre proscenium.  In the body of the room are GUESTS.  They are 
     the people BRAD and JANET passed on the road.  They are the 
     Transylvanian Secret Agents - assembled on this special occasion from 
     all over the earth.  It is the Annual Transylvanian Convention - 
     announced by an official banner suspended over the Ballroom.  They are
     all dressed in strange but elegant evening wear.  They are a distorted 
     version of the GUESTS from the Denton wedding.  A party spirit prevails, 
     they throw their arms out in a plea to RIFF RAFF on the balcony.

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     JANET falls into BRAD's arms.

     RIFF RAFF is ecstatic.

     BRAD revives JANET.

                         GUESTS
                    (repeating action)
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     JANET faints again.

                                        CUT TO

42   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     The NARRATOR moves from his desk to the wall behind him.  He pulls down 
     a chart with illustrated dance steps on it.  He gestures to the 
     appropriate section of the diagram with the pointer.

                         NARRATOR
               It's just a jump to the left.

                                        WIPE TO

43   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     The GUESTS leap to the left in one giant step.

                         GUESTS
                    (dancing)
               And a step to the right - right -
               right - right - right.

                                        WIPE TO

44   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     NARRATOR points to next step on the chart.

                         NARRATOR
               With your hands on your hips.

                                        WIPE TO

45   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     ALL GUESTS have hands on hips.

                         GUESTS
               You bring your knees in tight.
               But it's the pelvic thrust.

     The rows of GUESTS open out with pelvic thrusts.

                         GUESTS (Cont)
               They really drive you insane.

     We see them from the balcony and they open out in formation.

                         GUESTS (Cont)
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     JANET revives.

     The GUESTS re-form.

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     BRAD and JANET make a run out the door.

                                        CUT TO

46   INT. STAIRWAY  NIGHT

     They collide with MAGENTA who has blocked off the corridor with her 
     vacuum.  She sings with menace, waving the cleaner hose dangerously.

                         MAGENTA
               It's so dreamy
               Oh, fantasy free me
               So you can't see me
               No not at all.

     BRAD and JANET look at each other in alarm.

               In another dimension.
                    (she forces them back towards
                    balcony)
               With voyeuristic intention.

     BRAD blushes.

               Well secluded I see all
               With a bit of a mind flip
               You're into the time slip
               Nothing will ever seem the same.

     They are back at the balcony.

               You're spaced out on sensation.

     They are at the edge of the balcony.

               Like you're under sedation.

     They force BRAD and JANET into the Ballroom proper.

     The GUESTS turn on them.

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     BRAD and JANET are completely dismayed.

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     COLUMBIA, a young girl, is the household groupie.  She sings with the 
     band at the end of the Ballroom.

                                        CUT TO

47   INT. BANDSTAND NIGHT

                         COLUMBIA
               Well I was walking down the street
               Just having a think
               When a snake of a guy
               Gave me an evil wink.
               Well it shook me up
               It took me by surprise
               He had a pick-up truck
               And the devil's eyes
               He stared at me
               And I felt a change
               Time meant nothing
               Never would again.

                                        CUT TO

48   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     BRAD and JANET are reeling.

                         GUESTS
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

                                        CUT TO

49   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     NARRATOR.  He has now become rather involved in the dance and is 
     standing on the blotter on the top of his desk.

                         NARRATOR
               It's just a jump to the left.

     He jumps to the left.

                                        WIPE TO

50   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

                         GUESTS
               And then a step to the right.

     The GUESTS take one.

                                        WIPE TO

51   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     The NARRATOR dancing on the desk.

                         NARRATOR
               With your hands on your hips.

                                        WIPE TO

52   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

                         GUESTS
               You bring your knees in tight.

     OVERHEAD TRAVELLING SHOT.

               But it's the pelvic thrust.

     LOW TRAVELLING SHOT between their legs.

               That really drives you insane.
               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     Everyone reverses direction.

               Let's do the Time Warp again.

     All the GUESTS fall to the floor like flies exhausted.

                                        CUT TO

53   INT. BALCONY/HALLWAY     NIGHT

                         JANET
               Oh....Say something.

                         BRAD
               Say!  Do any of you guys know the Madison?

     No one laughs.

     GUESTS turn nasty.

53A  INT. HALL/LIFT NIGHT

     BRAD and JANET retreat to the hall.  Behind them a lift slowly descends 
     bearing a figure in a black cloak and a diamante stiletto heel - beating
     time to a rhythm the band has started playing.

                         JANET
               Brad, please lets get out of here.

                         BRAD
               For God's sake keep a grip on yourself Janet.

                         JANET
               But it seems so unhealthy here.

                         BRAD
               It's just a..a party Janet.

                         JANET
               Well I want to leave.

                         BRAD
               We can't go anywhere until I get to a phone.

                         JANET
               Then ask the butler - or someone.

                         BRAD
               Let's wait awhile Janet.  We don't want 
               to interfere with their celebrations.

                         JANET
               This isn't the Junior Chamber of 
               Commerce Brad.

                         BRAD
               They're probably foreigners with ways 
               different from our own.  -  They may 
               do some more folk dancing.

                         JANET
               Brad - I'm cold, I'm wet, and plain scared.

                         BRAD
               I'm here, there's nothing to worry about.

     GUESTS rise, staring mesmerised at the lift.

     JANET sees the shoe, looks up at the face of its owner.

     JANET faints.

--------------------------------------------
GO TO COLOUR AT BEGINNING OF FOLLOWING SCENE
--------------------------------------------

54   INT. LIFT/HALL NIGHT

     The figure turns and throws open lift cage door.  As camera zooms in to 
     the death mask above them the film changes from black and white to 
     colour.  However the only colour in evidence is the red lipstick on the 
     mouth of their host.

     SONG:          "SWEET TRANSVESTITE"

                         FRANK
               How do you do.

               I see you've met my faithful handyman.
               He's a little brought down - 
               Because when you knocked
               He thought you were the candyman.

     RIFF RAFF scowls.

54A  INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

                         FRANK
               Don't get strung out by the way 
               that I look.

     FRANK strides across the Ballroom to the throne.

                         FRANK
               Don't judge a book by its cover
               I'm not much of a man
               By the light of day
               But by night I'm one hell of a lover.

     JANET gives a silent scream.

     FRANK lets the cloak fall onto the throne, which reveals his 
     transvestite attire.

     The GUESTS scream with delight.

                         FRANK
               I'm just a sweet Transvestite
               From Transexual Transylvania.

     He slowly moves back to BRAD and JANET, doing leg kicks.

               Let me show you around, maybe play you a sound
               You look like you're both pretty groovie.

     He circles them and forces them into the Ballroom.

               Or if you want something visual
               not too abysmal
               We could take in an old Steve Reeves movie.

     BRAD clumsily attempts to circle around FRANK.  FRANK meanwhile ignores 
     him and greets his other guests.

                         BRAD
               I'm glad we caught you at home
               Ah - could we use your phone
               We're both in a bit of a hurry.

     JANET joins BRAD.

                         JANET
               Right!

                         BRAD
               We'll just say where we are
               Then go back to the car
               We don't want to be any worry.

     FRANK turns on them.

                         FRANK
               You got caught with a flat
               Well how about that
               Well babies don't you panic
               By the light of the night
               It'll seem alright
               I'll get you a satanic mechanic.

     FRANK turns his back on BRAD and JANET and splitting the ranks of his 
     GUESTS, departs for the other end of the Ballroom.  Streamers fall.

                         FRANK
               I'm just a sweet transvestite
               From Transexual Transylvania.

     From the throne he gestures towards BRAD and JANET rather slowly over 
     the next verse.

                         FRANK
               Why dont'cha stay for the night

                         RIFF & MAGENTA
               "night"
               Or maybe a bite

                         RIFF & MAGENTA
               "bite"
               I could show you my favourite obsession
               I've been making a man
               With blonde hair and a tan
               And he's good for relieving my tension.

     We view from OVERHEAD as the GUESTS surround him adoringly.

                         FRANK
               I'm just a sweet transvestite
               From Transexual Transylvania.

     FRANK storms down the Ballroom to the lift.

               I'm just a sweet transvestite.

                         GUESTS
               "Sweet Transvestite"

                         FRANK
               From Transexual Transylvania.

                         GUESTS
               "Transylvania"

55   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK
               So come up to the Lab.

                                        CUT TO

56   CHORD:  SUBLIMINAL FLASH - LABORATORY

                                        CUT TO

57   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK (Cont)
               And see what's on the slab.

                                        CUT TO

58   CHORD:  SUBLIMINAL FLASH - ROCKY'S BIRTH IN THE LABORATORY

                                        CUT TO

59   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK (Cont)
               I see you shiver with anticipation

                                        CUT TO

60   CHORD:  SUBLIMINAL FLASH OF LOVE MAKING

                                        CUT TO

61   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK (Cont)
               But maybe the rain

                                        CUT TO

62   CHORD:  FLASH - THE CAR AND THE WINDSCREEN WIPERS

                                        CUT TO

63   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK (Cont)
               Is really to blame

                                        CUT TO

64   CHORD:  SUBLIMINAL FLASH - THE WEDDING

                                        CUT TO

65   INT. LIFT AREA

                         FRANK (Cont)
               So I'll remove the cause
               But not the symptom

                                        CUT TO

66   CHORD:  SUBLIMINAL FLASH - THE EXPLOSION

                                        CUT TO

67   INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     On the last chord the lift has disappeared.

     The GUESTS applaud ecstatically.

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA close in on BRAD and JANET.  They remove BRAD and
     JANET's wet clothes.

     COLUMBIA moves down from the bandstand and crosses to BRAD and JANET.  
     She witnesses the undressing.

                         COLUMBIA
               Slowly, slowly.  It's too nice a job
               to rush.

     The GUESTS moan softly as each piece of clothing is removed.

     BRAD and JANET stand shivering in their underwear.

     There is complete silence.

     The GUESTS and SERVANTS are motionless.

     BRAD and JANET are the total object of their attention.

                                        CUT TO

68   INT. HALL/LIFT NIGHT

                         JANET
               Oh Brad.

                         BRAD
                    (confidentially)
               It's alright Janet, we'll play along
               for now and pull out the aces when the
               time is right.

     He turns to COLUMBIA who has been staring at his underpants.

                         BRAD
               Ah, hi.  My name is Brad Majors and
               this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  You
               are ...

                         COLUMBIA
               You are very lucky to be invited up
               to Frank's laboratory.  Some people
               would give their right arm for the
               privilege.

     RIFF RAFF has opened the cage doors to the lift.

     The GUESTS rush for positions.

                         BRAD
               People like you maybe

                         COLUMBIA
               I've seen it.

     COLUMBIA escorts them to the lift.

     RIFF RAFF throws two GUESTS to the floor to make room for them.
     He slams the cage door.

     The two discarded GUESTS cry and claw at the cage door as the lift moves 
     off under RIFF RAFF's control.

     BRAD and JANET are squashed, arms by their side.

     They stare straight ahead.

                         JANET
                    (to Magenta)
               It he - Frank - is he your husband?

     General amusement.

                         RIFF RAFF
               The Master is not yet married.  Nor
               do I think he ever will be.  We are
               simply his servants.

                         JANET
               Oh.

     The lift grinds to a halt.

     They have arrived at the laboratory.

                                        CUT TO

69   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     The laboratory is somewhere between a student observation operating 
     theatre and a Greek gymnasium.  It is pink-tiled throughout, facing the 
     lift entrance is a circular area containing a TANK on pedestals which
     though screened at this stage will be revealed to contain the body of 
     ROCKY submerged in chemicals, the wall to one side contains a raised 
     dias area for the GUESTS, and facing one end of the tank, the 
     operational controls, monitor and a giant refrigerator.  A chandelier 
     hangs above the tank.

     On the podium in front of Frank's chambers there is a stand microphone.  
     Near the podium are some weights.  Behind the tank is a vaulting horse.
     These are wrapped in sellophane - Rocky's presents.

     The GUESTS are waiting as the lift arrives.

     FRANK, now in surgeon's outfit stands in the middle of the room.  RIFF 
     RAFF gets out of the lift first, with a glass of champagne which he
     hands to FRANK.

                         FRANK
               Magenta, Columbia, go and assist Riff Raff.

     As he speaks her name each one steps forward out of the lift.  They
     cross to RIFF RAFF behind the tank.

                         FRANK
               I will entertain...ah...

     BRAD & JANET step out of the lift.

                         BRAD
               I'm Brad Majors and this
               is my fiancee, Janet Vice.

                         JANET
               Weiss.

                         BRAD
               Weiss.

                         FRANK (Taking Janet's hand to kiss)
               Encante....How nice.  (he circles them)
               And what charming underclothes you both have.
               (He takes two dust coats from Riff Raff 
               and hands them to Brad).
               But here, put these on.  They'll
               make you feel less vulnerable.

     MAGENTA & COLUMBIA cross to the podium.

                         FRANK (continues)
               It's not often we receive visitors here.
               Let alone offer them hospitality.

                         BRAD (Moving towards Frank)
               Hospitality!  All we wanted to do was 
               use your telephone.  A reasonable request 
               which you have chosen to ignore.

                         JANET (Hurring after Brad)
               Don't be ungrateful Brad.

                         BRAD (Stepping closer to Frank)
               Ungrateful!

     The room falls silent.  All eyes are on FRANK, waiting for his reaction.  
     A smile breaks on his face.

                         FRANK
               How forceful you are Brad.  Such a 
               perfect specimen of manhood.  So dominant.

     MAGENTA & COLUMBIA laugh.

               You must be awfully proud of him Janet.

                         JANET
               Well, yes I am.

     THE GUESTS oh and ah appreciatively, BRAD laughs, a little embarassed.

                         FRANK
               Do you have any tattoos Brad.

                         BRAD
               Certainly not!

                         FRANK
               Oh well.  How about you.  (He laughs)

     RIFF RAFF has approached behind FRANK, looming over his shoulder.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Everything is in readiness, Master.
               We merely await your word.

     FRANK drinks his champagne then hands RIFF RAFF the empty glass.  RIFF 
     RAFF goes to the control panel and FRANK to the podium

                         FRANK
               Tonight...One, one, one.  Can you hear 
               me at the back?
               Tonight, my unconventional conventionists.

     MAGENTA, COLUMBIA and GUESTS laugh politely.

                         FRANK
               Tonight you are to witness a breakthrough 
               in biochemical research.

     There is a gasp from COLUMBIA, MAGENTA and GUESTS.

                         FRANK
               And paradise is to be mine.

     GUESTS and everybody applaud.  JANET claps too, but BRAD indicates that 
     she shouldn't.

                         FRANK
               It was strange the way it happened.
               One of those quirks of fate really.  
               One of those moments when you seem 
               irredeemably lost:  you panic; you're 
               trapped; your back's against the wall.
               There's no way out, and then suddenly, 
               you get a break.  (He cracks the bones 
               in his hand)  All the pieces seem to 
               fit into place.  What a sucker you'r 
               been. What a fool.  The answer was there
               all the time.  It took a small accident 
               to make it happen.  An accident!

     MAGENTA & COLUMBIA step forward one each side of him.

                         MAGENTA & COLUMBIA (softly)
               An accident.

                         FRANK
               That's how I discovered the secret.
               That elusive ingredient, that spark 
               that is the breath of life.

     GUESTS applaud.

                         FRANK (Moving to tank)
               You see, Brad and Janet, you are fortunate.
               For tonight is the night that my beautiful
               creature is destined to be born.

     Everybody applauds.  FRANK then pulls the cover from the tank.  RIFF 
     RAFF is at the control panel.

70   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     The tank is revealed.  There is something inside it is immersed in clear 
     fluid.  The GUESTS are astonished.

                         FRANK
               Throw open the switches on the sonic 
               oscillator.

     RIFF RAFF flicks the switch to activate the oscilloscopes in the panel.

                         FRANK
               And step up the reactor power input 
               three more points.

     RIFF RAFF presses a button three times then begins to unwind a wheel.

     FRANK watches excitedly from behind the tank as the chandelier is 
     lowered.  It spurts different coloured liquids into the tank.

     The liquids bubble and change colour.  The thing inside begins to look 
     like a human form.

                         JANET
               Brad...

                         BRAD
               It's alright Janet.

     The liquids drain away.  The form begins to move.

     FRANK climbs the ladder at one end of the tank, RIFF RAFF the other.

     ROCKY HORROR sits up, raises his arms, finally stands upright with both 
     arms outstretched.

     RIFF RAFF removes the bandage from ROCKY's head.  ROCKY looks at RIFF 
     RAFF then at FRANK.  With a gasp he leaps for the chandelier above.

     At the same time RIFF RAFF is down the ladder making for the handle.  He 
     winds up the chandelier and ROCKY.

71   INT. THE LABORATORY NIGHT

     SONG:          THE SWORD OF DAMOCLES.

     ROCKY HORROR with only his head unbandaged, is hanging on to the 
     chandelier which RIFF RAFF is winding upwards.

                         ROCKY
               The Sword of Damocles is
               Hanging over my head.

     FRANK runs down the ladder and kicks RIFF RAFF who starts to lower the 
     chandelier.  FRANK climbs up the other steps to meet his creation coming 
     down.  MAGENTA & COLUMBIA cross to the tank.

                         ROCKY
               And I've got the feeling
               Someone's going to be
               Cutting the thread.

               Oh, woe is me.
               My life is a misery.

               Oh, can't you see
               That I'm at the start
               Of a pretty big downer....

     As ROCKY gets level with him, FRANK lunges for him but lands inside the 
     tank....because...

     ROCKY simultaneously abandons the chandelier, lands between MAGENTA and 
     COLUMBIA who now each have a pair of scissors with which they will snip
     his arm and leg bandages.

                         ROCKY
               I woke up this morning
               With a start
               When I fell out of bed.

                         GUESTS (inc. Riff, Magenta & Columbia)
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               And left from my dreaming
               Was a feeling
               Of un-nameable dread.

                         GUESTS
               That ain't no crime

                         ROCKY
               My high is low.
               I'm dressed up
               With no place to go.

               And all I know
               Is I'm at the start
               Of a pretty big downer.

     FRANK, in the tank behind ROCKY, puts his arms round ROCKY's neck.  
     ROCKY spins away.  MAGENTA and COLUMBIA hang on to one end of his chest
     bandage so that it undoes as he goes.

                         GUESTS (inc. RIFF RAFF, MAGENTA & COLUMBIA)
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               Oh, no no, no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               No no no, no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime -
               That ain't no crime.

     ROCKY is now unbandaged.  He strikes a pose.

     During the last sequence, FRANK climbs out of the tank onto RIFF RAFF'S 
     shoulders and purses ROCKY, but they fall.

72   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     NARRATOR reading from book.

                         NARRATOR
               Rocky needed peace of mind.
               He didn't know
               He was doing just fine.

               He was the product
               Of another time.
               And as for feeling down -
               Well that's not a crime.

73   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     FRANK and RIFF RAFF are recovering from their fall.

     ROCKY makes a circuit of the GUESTS.

                         GUESTS (Riff, Magenta & Columbia)
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY (To first group of guests)
               The sword of Damocles is
               Hanging over my head.

                         GUESTS
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY (To second group)
               And I've got the feeling
               Someone's going to be
               Cutting the thread.

                         GUESTS
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY (To third group)
               Oh, woe is me - 
               My life is a mystery.

               (To fourth group)
               Oh can't you see
               That I'm at the start
               Of a pretty big downer.

     ROCKY set off at a run as FRANK looms up again.

     (FRANK is chasing ROCKY round the lab.)

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               Oh no no no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               No no no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.
               That ain't no crime.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               No no no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime.

                         ROCKY
               No no no no.

                         GUESTS
               Sha la la la
               That ain't no crime -
               That ain't no crime.

     At the end of number, ROCKY has climbed up the ladder attached to the 
     end of the tank nearest the bridal chambers and FRANK is in a heap 
     below.  RIFF RAFF is behind the tank and MAGENTA and COLUMBIA in their 
     positions in front of it.

74   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     FRANK picks himself up.  ROCKY is sitting at the top of the ladder above 
     him, with his perfect limbs near Frank's face.

                         FRANK
               Well.  That's no way to
               behave on your first day out.

     ROCKY looks hurt.

               But as you're such an
               exceptional beauty I'm
               prepared to forgive.

     FRANK crosses behind ROCKY to stand next to RIFF RAFF behind the tank.

               I just love success.

                         RIFF RAFF (edging up to Frank)
               He is a credit to your
               genius, Master.

                         FRANK
               Yes.

                         MAGENTA (Moving to tank from controls)
               A triumph of your vill.

                         FRANK
               Yes.

                         COLUMBIA (Who is on opposite side of tank)
               He's o.k.

                         FRANK
               O.K?  (Moving out behind tank towards 
               Janet and Brad)  I think we can do a 
               little better than that.

               You.  (To Janet)  What do you think?

                         JANET
               Well.  (She looks at Brad)  I don't 
               like men with...er, with too many, muscles.

                         FRANK
               I didn't make him for you

     JANET nods hastily.  FRANK moves towards microphone.

               He carries the Charles Atlas seal of 
               approval....And he didn't even take 
               the lessons.

74A  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     SONG:          CHARLES ATLAS (Pt. 1)

     As FRANK starts to sing, MAGENTA & RIFF RAFF collect one of ROCKY's 
     presents, the vaulting horse, and place it in front of the podium.
     COLUMBIA leads ROCKY down from the ladder.

                         FRANK
               A weakling weighing
               Ninety eight pounds
               Will get sand in his face
               When kicked to the ground.
               And soon in the gym (ROCKY sits on horse)
               With a determined chin
               The sweat from his pores
               As he works for his ca-ha-hause

     MAGENTA & RIFF RAFF now bring the weights.

                         FRANK
               Will make him glisten - thank you -
               And gleam.
               And with massage
               And just a little bit of
               Ste-he-he-he-hem...(laughs)
               He'll be pink.
               And quite clean.

                         FRANK
               He'll be a strong man -
               Oh honey -

                         GUESTS, RIFF, MAGENTA & COLUMBIA & FRANK.
               But the wrong man.

                         FRANK
               He'll eat nutritious high protein
               And swallow raw eggs.
               Try to build up his shoulders,
               His chest, arms and legs.

               Such an effort -
               If he only knew of my plan.
               In just seven days,

                         GUESTS, RIFF, MAGENTA & COLUMBIA & FRANK
               I can make you a ma-aa-a-a-an

     ROCKY throws down the weights and begins press ups.

                         FRANK
               He'll do press-ups and chin-ups,
               Do the snatch, clean and jerk.

     FRANK crosses to JANET & BRAD

               He thinks dynamic tension
               Must be hard work.
               Such strenuous living
               I just don't understand.

     FRANK moves back to ROCKY who is still pressing up.

               When, in just seven days -
               Oh baby...(ROCKY jumps up.)

               I can make you
               A ma-a-a-a-an...(laugh).

75   INT. LABORATORY: REFRIGERATOR NIGHT

     The large refrigeration unit door slowly opens, falling like a 
     drawbridge.  Inside is a wall of ice and many CocaCola bottles.
     Through these bursts an icy EDDIE riding a Harley Davidson motor bike, 
     ex World War II, holding a Gibson guitar.

     Several guests are crushed to death.

                         COLUMBIA
               Eddie!

                         EDDIE
               Stay cool baby.

                         JANET
               Who's Eddie?

                         RIFF RAFF
               The delivery boy.

                         MAGENTA
               His delivery wasn't good enough though.

     ROCKY looks terrified.

     JANET has fainted yet again.

     EDDIE comes to life.

76   SONG:          "WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO SATURDAY NIGHT"

                         EDDIE
               Whatever happened to Saturday night
               When you dressed up sharp
               And you felt alright
               It don't seem the same since cosmic light
               Came into my life and I thought I was divine.

     COLUMBIA leaps on to the pillion seat.

               I used to go for a ride with a chick who'd go
               And listen to the music on the radio.

     The MOTORCYCLISTS GUESTS remember only too well.

               A saxophone was blowing on a rock and roll show
               And we climbed in the back
               And we really had a good time

     COLUMBIA rushes to the switchboard, flicks a lighting switch and all the 
     lights above the stairs start changing colour.

     The GUESTS go crazy and rock and roll all over the staircase.

     COLUMBIA dances with EDDIE.

     Even RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA step it out.

                         ALL
               Hot patootie
               Bless my soul
               I really love that rock and roll
               (four times)

     EDDIE (more confident, less frozen) leaps onto the motorbike in a legs 
     apart guitar strumming pose.

     FRANK is getting furious.

     ROCKY is perplexed.

                         EDDIE
               My head used to swim
               From the perfume I smelled.
               My hands kind of fumbled
               With her white plastic belt.
               I'd taster her baby pink lipstick,
               And that's when I'd melt.
               And she'd whisper in my ear,
               Tonight she really was mine.

               Get back in front and put
               Some hair oil on.
               Buddy Holly was singing
               His very last song.
               With your arms around your girl
               You tried to - ah - sing along
               It felt pretty good, whoo.
               Really had a good ti-i-ime.

     EDDIE slips onto the pedal starting the bike.  He takes off and roars 
     round the laboratory, even riding up and down the walls.

                         ALL
               Hot patootie
               Bless my soul.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie
               Bless my soul.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie
               Bless my soul.
               You know I love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie
               Bless my soul.
               I really love that rock and roll.

     4 bars instrumental (saxophone)

     FRANK steals towards the fridge where he collects an ice pick, 
     innocently.

                         ALL            EDDIE
               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE -
               Bless my soul.      BLESS MY SO-O-OUL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE
               Bless my soul.      I LOVE THAT ROCK & ROLL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE...
               Bless my soul.      I LOVE THAT ROCK & ROLL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE...
               Bless my soul.      BLESS MY SO-O-OUL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE..
               Bless my soul.      I REALLY LOVE THAT ROCK & ROLL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE...
               Bless my soul.      BLESS MY SO-O-OOOUUL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE
               Bless my soul.      I LOVE THAT ROCK & ROLL.
               I really love that rock and roll.

               Hot patootie        HOT PATOOTIE
               Bless my soul.      I LOVE-A-LOVE-A-LOVE-A
               I really love that rock and roll.
                                   THAT ROCK AND ROO-AHOUL!

     On the last chorus FRANK rushes to EDDIE with the ice pick, in a 
     demented fury.

     THE GUESTS are unbelieving.

     COLUMBIA covers her face with her hands.

     EDDIE is dead.  FRANK walks away from his body unconcerned.

     JANET screams and screams.

77   INT. LAB  NIGHT

     DIALOGUE SEQUENCE

     MAGENTA is very bored and picking up ice cubes and placing them in the 
     ice bucket.

                         FRANK
               One from the vaults.

     RIFF RAFF drags EDDIE's dismembered body back into the fridge.

               And so perish all those who reject my love!

     ROCKY cowers in terror.

               Oh no, my little Adonis -
               You're much too beautiful to be destroyed.
               He had a certain naive charm - but no muscle.

     ROCKY flexes.

     FRANK is thrilled.

78   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         FRANK
               But a deltoid
               And a bicep,
               A hot groin
               And a tricep
               Makes me - ooh -
               Shake.
               Makes me want
               To take
               Charles Atlas
               By the ha-and.

               In just seven days -
               Oh baby -

                         GUESTS, RIFF RAFF, MAGENTA & COLUMBIA & FRANK
               I can make you a
               Ma-ha-ha-ha-haan.

               I don't want no dissension
               Just dynamic tension.

               In just seven days
               I can make you
               A ma-ha-ha-ha-haan.

               In just seven days
               I can make you
               A ma-ha-ha-ha-haaan.

                                        CUT TO

79   INT. BRIDAL SUITE   NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF presses a button and a wall opens revealing a bridal suite 
     done out in black silk.

     The GUESTS shout their approval.

     The end of the SONG turns into Mendelssohn's wedding march and FRANK 
     leads ROCKY to his bridal chamber.

     The GUESTS throw confetti.

     BRAD and JANET look at each other in amazement.

                                        WIPE TO

80   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
               There are some people who say that life
               is an illusion, and that reality is simply
               a figment of our imaginations!  If this
               is so, then Brad and Janet are quite safe.
               However, the sudden departure of their
               host and his creation (into the seclusion
               of his sombre bridal suite) had left them
               feeling both apprehensive and uneasy.
               A feeling which grew as the other guests
               'departed' and 'they' were shown to their
               separate rooms.

                                        WIPE TO

81   INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     JANET looks lost.

     She sits on the end of the bed.

                                        CUT TO

82   INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

     BRAD looks lost.

     He examines the TV monitor.

83   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA by the monitor.

     They switch from channel to channel.

     We see BRAD looking at the TV monitor.

     And JANET sitting on the end of the bed.

     JANET lies back on the bed and switches off her bedside lamp.

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA smile at each other.

                                        CUT TO

84   INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     Only a soft glow of moonlight from a barred window.  ON the netting
     round her bed.

     There is a knock at the door.

     JANET sits p.

                         JANET
               Who is it?  Who's there?

     BRAD's voice from behind the door.

                         BRAD'S VOICE
               It's only me, Janet.

     She relaxes.

                         JANET
               Oh, Brad, come in, darling.

     A silhouette enters and crosses to the bed.  It moves onto the bed
     behind the net curtain.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad - Mmmm - Oh yes, my darling -
               what if...

                         BRAD
               It's alright Janet.  Everything's going
               to be alright.

                         JANET
               Oh, I hope so my darling.  But let me
               switch on the light.

                         BRAD
               No, don't do that.

                         JANET
               Oh don't be so shy.

     She switches on the light to reveal FRANK.

                         JANET
               YOU!

     FRANK sits up.

                         FRANK
               I'm afraid so, Janet.  But isn't it nice?

     JANET beats his chest with her clenched fists.

                         JANET
               You beast, you monster, what have you
               done with Brad?

                         FRANK
               Nothing.  Why, do you think I should?

                         JANET
               You tricked me - I wouldn't have -
               I've never - never

                         FRANK
               I know.  But it wasn't all bad was it?
               In fact, I think you found it quite pleasurable.
               Mmmmm so soft, so sensual.

     He re-commences making love to her.

                         JANET
               Oh - Oh - no - stop - I mean help.
               I - Brad - Oh.
                    (she shouts)
               Brad.

     FRANK places a finger on her lips.

                         FRANK
               Ssssh.  Brad's probably asleep by now.  
               Do you want him to see you like this?

                         JANET
               Like this - like how?  It's your fault.
               You're to blame.
                    (pause)
               I was saving myself.

                         FRANK
               Well, I'm sure you're not spent yet.

     He switches off the light.

                                        CUT TO

85   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA stare intently at the screen.

     They smile at each other.

                                        CUT TO

86   INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     Silhouette of FRANK and JANET making love.

                         JANET
               Promise you won't tell Brad.

                         FRANK
               Cross my heart and hope to die.

     JANET squeals with excitement.

                                        DISSOLVE TO

87   INT. BRIDAL SUITE ADJOINING LABORATORY  NIGHT

     We see ROCKY chained to the bed sleeping.

     In the background RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA in laboratory.

     ROCKY stirs and makes a sound.

     RIFF RAFF walks across to the door and stares at the sleeping body.

     His eyes are full of hate.

     He looks at MAGENTA.

     She nods to him.

     He releases the chains.

     ROCKY stirs.

     RIFF RAFF picks up a candelabra from the bedside table and taunts ROCKY.

     ROCKY jumps out of the bed, terrified.

     RIFF RAFF pushes the candelabra in his face.

     ROCKY crashes through the laboratory and escapes.

     RIFF RAFF turns to MAGENTA who is now standing in the doorway.

     RIFF RAFF puts down the candelabra and they exchange a strange sign.

                                        DISSOLVE TO

88   INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

     A knock at the door.

     BRAD opens it cautiously.

     A shadowy figure moves across the room to the bed.

                         JANET'S VOICE
                    (distraught)
               Oh Brad, it's no good here.  It will
               destroy us.

     BRAD takes her hand.

                         BRAD
               Don't worry Janet, we'll be away
               from here in the morning.  Hmmmm,
               you smell so good.

     He gently lays her down on the bed and attempts to caress her.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad.  Oh no.  Not till after
               the wedding, Darling.

     BRAD sits up.

                         BRAD
               Alright, Janet.  I understand.

     The shadow rolls over.

                         JANET
               Maybe we could try it this way.

                         BRAD
                    (surprised)
               Janet!  Oh!  Yes it's alright.  Janet.
               Everything's going to be alright.

                         JANET
               I hope so my darling.

     BRAD reaches out to the light.

               No, don't put on the l...

     BRAD switches on the bedside lamp an realises he is making love to
     FRANK wearing a JANET wig.

                         BRAD
               You!

                         FRANK
               I'm afraid so, Brad.  But wasn't it nice?

     BRAD grabs FRANK around the throat.

                         BRAD
               Why you - what have you done with Janet?

                         FRANK
               Nothing.  Why do you think I should?

     BRAD lets him go and turns away humiliated.

                         BRAD
               You tricked me.  I wouldn't have -
               I've never - never.

                         FRANK
               I know, but it wasn't all bad was it?
               I think you found it quite pleasurable.
                    (he caresses Brad)
               Oh so soft.  So sensual.

                         BRAD
               Ahhh - no - stop - I mean Janet.
                    (shouts)
               Janet.

                         FRANK
               Shush.  Janet's probably asleep by now.
               Do you want her to see you like this?

                         BRAD
               Like this.
                    (throwing Frank aside)
               Like how?  It's your fault - you're to
               blame.  I thought it was the real thing.

                         FRANK
               Oh come on, Brad, admit it.  It was
               enjoyable, wasn't it?  There's no crime
               in giving yourself over to pleasure.

                         FRANK (Switches off light)
               Oh Brad, you have wasted so much time
               already.  Janet needn't know, I won't tell her.

                         BRAD
               You promise you won't tell?

                         FRANK
               On my mother's grave.

     Suddenly the shadows are illuminated by the monitor as an image of
     RIFF RAFF appears on the screen above the bed.

89   TV MONITOR

                         RIFF RAFF
               Master, Rocky has broken his chains
               and vanished.  The new playmate is loose
               and in the castle ground.  Magenta has
               just released the dogs.

90   FRAN'S SILHOUETTE THROUGH NET CURTAINS.

     FRANK is getting carried away.

                         FRANK
               I'm coming.

91   EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS.     NIGHT.    

     A shot of pack of huge alsations careereing around the castle grounds.
     They are chasing a bewildered Rocky.

                                        WIPE TO.

92   INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     JANET is lying on the bed posed in the style of a "True Romance" comic
     heroine.

                         JANET
               What's happening here?  Where's Brad?
               Where's anybody?

                                        WIPE TO

92A  INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

     BRAD is posed in the style of a "True Romance" comic hero.  He is
     nervous and smoking.  Behind him FRANK is asleep on the bed.

                         BRAD
               Once in a while she don't want to call you
               Speaking on the telephone
               Once in your life she won't want to know you
               You look around
               The one you've found
               She is gone.

                                        WIPE TO

92B  INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     JANET is sitting on the end of the bed.

                         JANET
               I'm engaged to Brad just the same as
               Betty Monroe was to Ralph Hapschatt.
               But Frank's kisses overwhelmed me with
               an ecstacy I've never dreamt of before.
               Hot, burning kisses.

                                        WIPE TO

92C  INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

                         BRAD
               And that's all the time that it takes
               For a heart to turn to stone
               The sweeter the wine
               The harder to make the break
               You hear something about someone
               You'd thought you'd known.

                                        WIPE TO

92D  INT. JANET'S ROOM (RED FILTER)     NIGHT

     JANET is at the door.

                         JANET
               I could see Brad's face before me and my
               mind screamed No!  But my lips were hungry -
               too hungry.

                                        WIPE TO

92E  INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

                         BRAD
               So baby don't cry like there's no tomorrow
               After the night there's a brand new day.
               And there'll be no pain
               And no more sorrow.
               So wash your face
               And phone my place
               It'll be O.K.

                                        WIPE TO

92F  INT. CORRIDOR (RED FILTER - OAKLEY COURT)    NIGHT

                         JANET
               I wanted to be loved completely.
               My body throbbed excitedly.  Oh Brad,
               Brad my darling, how could I have
               done this to you?

                                        WIPE TO

92G  INT. BRAD'S ROOM (BLUE FILTER)     NIGHT

                         BRAD
               And that's all the time that it takes
               For a heart to beat again.
               So give me a sign
               That a lover makes
               You look around
               The one you've found
               Is back again.

                                        WIPE TO

92H  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         JANET
               If only we hadn't made this journey.
               If only the car hadn't broken down.
               If only we were amongst friends or sane persons.

                                        WIPE TO

93   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     The NARRATOR is leaning back in his armchair, cool and considerate.

                         NARRATOR
               "If" and "Only", two small words.  Words
               which kept repeating themselves again and
               again in Janet's thoughts.  But it was too
               late to go back now.  It was as if she were
               riding a giant tidal wave.  It would be folly
               to fight against it.  Her only chance would
               be to ride it out - adapt - and perhaps also
               to survive.

                                        WIPE TO

94   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     JANET is pacing around the tank which is covered by a cloth.  She
     becomes aware of the sound of someone crying inside.  She pulls the
     cloth back to reveal ROCKY lying in the tank - exhausted and bleeding.

     ROCKY HORROR looks miserable.

                         JANET
               Yes.  There you see it's instinctive.
               This room is your womb.  You returned
               here for one thing - security.

     JANET crosses to the TV monitor.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad!  What have they done with him?

                                        CUT TO

95   TV MONITOR

     She switches on the monitor.

     She changes the channels on the monitor getting various empty rooms
     in the castle.

     Occasional shot of alsatian dogs.

     Till finally she switches into BRAD's bedroom and sees BRAD sitting on
     the end of the bed and FRANK lying asleep on the bed.

                                        CUT TO

96   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         JANET
               Ahhh!

     ROCKY smiles helplessly.

     JANET moves away from the monitor and back to ROCKY.

                         JANET
               Oh Brad.  How could you?
                    (she sees Rocky's wounds)
               Oh, but you're hurt.  Did they do this
               to you?

     ROCKY nods.

                         JANET
               Here, lie down.  I'll dress your wounds.

     ROCKY smiles at JANET.

     A new expression crosses her face.

                                        WIPE TO

97   INT. STUDY     NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
                    (reads from a dictionary)
               "Emotion".  Mental agitation - an excited
               state of.
                    (he looks up)
               It is also an irrational and powerful master
               and from what Janet had witnessed on the
               monitor, there seemed to be little doubt that
               she was indeed its slave.

                                        WIPE TO

98   INT. COLUMBIA'S ROOM     NIGHT

     COLUMBIA and MAGENTA are watching the monitor.

                         COLUMBIA & MAGENTA
               Tell us about it, Janet.

     They giggle.

                                        CUT TO

99   INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     SONG:          "TOUCH A TOUCH ME"

     ROCKY is lying on the operating table.

     JANET is dabbing his wounds.

                         JANET
               I was feeling done in
               Couldn't win
               I'd only ever kissed before

                                        CUT TO

100  INT. COLUMBIA'S ROOM     NIGHT

     COLUMBIA and MAGENTA.

                         COLUMBIA
                    (to Magenta)
               You mean she only ever kissed?

                                        CUT TO

101  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     JANET rips off a piece of her petticoat for a bandage.

                         JANET
               I thought there's no use getting
               Into heavy petting.

     She rips off another piece of her petticoat.

               It only leads to trouble
               And seat wetting.

     JANET rips another piece off her fast vanishing petticoat.

     During the next verse she bandages ROCKY.

                         JANET
               Now all I want to know
               Is how to go
               I've tasted blood
               And I want more
               I'll put up no resistance
               I want to stay the distance
               I've got an itch to scratch
               And I need assistance.

     JANET grabs ROCKY's hands and places them on her.

                         JANET
               Touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me.
               I wanna be dirty.
               Thrill me, chill me, fulfil me.
               Creature of the night.

               Then if anything grows (she laughs)
               While you pose,
               I'll oil you up
               And rub you down

                         RIFF RAFF, MAGENTA, COLUMBIA
               Down, down down.

                         JANET
               And that's just one small fraction
               Of the main attraction
               You need a friendly hand.
               Oh, and I need action.

               Touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me.
               I wanna be dirty.
               Thrill me, chil me, fulfil me.
               Creature of the night.

102  INT. COLUMBIA'S ROOM

     COLUMBIA & MAGENTA are watching the TV relay of ROCKY & JANET.
     They are amused by JANET'S inexperience, parodying her as they sing.

                         COLUMBIA
               Touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me.

                         MAGENTA
               I wanna be dirty.

                         COLUMBIA

               Thrill me, chill me, fulfil me.

                         MAGENTA
               Creature of the night.

103  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         JANET
               Oh, touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me.
               I wanna be dirty.
               Thrill me chill me, fulfil me - oh -
               Creature of the night.

               Creature of the ni-i-ight.

     We see JANET's p.o.v. of all the characters singing the last line:

                         ROCKY
               Creature of the night.

103A B.C.S. BRAD

                         BRAD
               Creature of the night.

103B B.C.S. FRANK

                         FRANK
               Creature of the night.

103C B.C.S. COLUMBIA

                         COLUMBIA
               Creature of the night.

103D B.C.S. RIFF RAFF

                         RIFF RAFF
               Creature of the night.

103E B.C.S. MAGENTA

                         MAGENTA
               Creature of the night.

103F B.C.S. ROCKY

                         ROCKY
               Creature of the night.

103G B.C.S. JANET

                         JANET
               Creature of the night.  Oh.

104  INT. COLUMBIA'S ROOM     NIGHT

     COLUMBIA & MAGENTA's reactions.

105  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     JANET & ROCKY in each other's arms hear another scream in the distance.

106  INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE LABORATORY   NIGHT

     FRANK is chasing RIFF RAFF with a whip.  BRAD is following.

     RIFF RAFF rushes into the lift and presses the button desperately but
     FRANK follows him and so does BRAD.  We see the lift descending.

107  INT. LABORATORY.    NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF slides across the laboratory floor escaping FRANK's whip.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Aaaargh!  Mercy.

                         FRANK
               How did it happen?  I understood you
               were to be watching.

     RIFF RAFF gets to his feet keeping a careful eye on the whip hand.

                         RIFF RAFF
               I was only away for a minute Master.

                         FRANK
               Well, see if you can find him on the monitor.

                                        CUT TO

108  TV MONITOR

     RIFF RAFF switches channels on the monitor.

     An image of a middle-aged professorial man in a wheelchair appears.

     The man is outside the castle, peering around the trees stealthily.

                                        CUT TO

109  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         RIFF RAFF
               Master, we have a visitor.

                                        CUT TO

110  TV MONITOR

     FRANK and BRAD crowd around the monitor.

                                        CUT TO

111  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         BRAD
               Great scott - Scotty - Dr Everett Scott.

                         RIFF RAFF
               You know this earth - this person.

                         BRAD
               I most certainly do.  He happens to
               be an old friend of mine.

                         FRANK
               I see.  So this wasn't simply a chance
               meeting.  You came here with a purpose.

                         BRAD
               I told you, my car broke down.

                                        CUT TO

112  TV MONITOR

     On the monitor the stranger looks very shifty.

                                        CUT TO

113  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     FRANK looks BRAD hard in the eye.

                         BRAD
               I was telling the truth.

                         FRANK
               I know what you told me, Brad.
               But this Dr Everett Scott.  His name
               is not unknown to me.

                         BRAD
               He was a Science Teacher at Denton High.

                         FRANK
               And now he works for your Government,
               doesn't he, Brad?  He's attached to the
               Bureau of Investigation of that which
               you call U.F.O's.  Isn't he, Brad?

                         BRAD
               He might be.  I don't know.

                         FRANK
               Hmmmm.  He'll be in the Zen Room.

                                        CUT TO

114  TV MONITOR

     DR SCOTT is indeed in the Zen Room.

                                        CUT TO

115  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

                         FRANK
               Well, let's ask him.

     FRANK throws a switch marked "TRIPLE CONTACT ELECTRO MAGNET".

                                        CUT TO

116  EXT/INT.  VARIOUS LOCALES     NIGHT

     We see DR SCOTT's wheelchair screaming through corridors, rooms and
     doors and ends up clamped to the electro magnet in the laboratory.

                                        CUT TO

117  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     BRAD is amazed.

                         BRAD
               Dr. Scott!

     DR EVERETT SCOTT is even more amazed.

                         DR SCOTT
               Brad!  What are you doing here?

     FRANK releases the electro magnet.

     The wheelchair hits the floor.

                         FRANK
               Don't play games, Dr Scott.  You know
               very well what Brad Majors's doing here.
               It was part of your plan was it not that he,
               and his female, should check the layout
               for you.  Well, unfortunately for you all
               there's to be a change of plans.  I'm sure
               you're adaptable, Dr Scott.  I know Brad is.

     BRAD looks embarrassed and humiliated.

                         DR SCOTT
               I can assure you that Brad's presence
               comes as a complete surprise to me.
               I came to find Eddie.

                         BRAD
               Eddie?  I've seen him.  He's...

     FRANK cuts in quickly.

                         FRANK
               Eddie?  What do you know of Eddie,
               Dr Scott?

                         DR SCOTT
               I happen to know a great deal about a
               lot of things.  You see Eddie happens
               to be my nephew.

                         BRAD
               Dr Scott.

     A stifled gasp is heard from JANET behind the curtain.

     FRANK is surprised.

     FRANK crosses the screen and pulls back the curtain to reveal
     JANET and ROCKY.

                         DR SCOTT
               Janet!

                         JANET
               Dr Scott!

                         BRAD
               Janet!

                         FRANK
               Rocky!

     ROCKY reviles FRANK with a look.  He puts his arm around JANET.

     FRANK is appalled.

                         FRANK
               Listen!  I made you, and I can break
               you just as easily.

     ROCKY is terrified.  He takes his arm away from JANET.

                         FRANK
               That's better.

     A GONG is heard.  MAGENTA comes through the broken tiles.

                         MAGENTA
               Master, dinner is prepared.

     FRANK & RIFF RAFF exchange a look.

                         FRANK
               Excellent.  (moves to Dr. Scott)

               Doctor Scott you can sample the
               speciality of the house - roast
               loin of pork.

     He gives JANET, who is virtually naked, a seering look.

                         FRANK
               Under the circumstances, formal
               dress is to be optional.

     FRANK leads the way to the lift.

118  INT. THE STUDY NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
               Food has always played a vital role
               in life's rituals.  The breaking of
               bread - the last meal of the condemned
               man - and now this meal.  However
               informal it might appear you can be
               sure there was to be very little
               'bonhomie'.

119  INT. DINING ROOM    NIGHT

     At the head of a large coffin shaped table sits FRANK.  There is an 
     electric carver on the table in front of him.  The table is laid for 
     dinner and present are JANET & BRAD on FRANK's right, DR. SCOTT opposite 
     him, ROCKY HORROR on Dr. Scott's right and between ROCKY and FRANK, 
     COLUMBIA.  They sit in silence as the double doors open.

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA enter.  RIFF RAFF carries a large joint of meat, 
     MAGENTA the wine, both of which they set down at the head of the table.

     RIFF RAFF & MAGENTA pour out the wine and return to the side of FRONT 
     who then rises.

                         FRANK
               A toast to absent friends.

                         ALL
               Absent friends.

     FRANK now proceeds to carve the meat.  Everyone is quiet and only the 
     buzzing of the electric carver is heard.  RIFF RAFF & MAGENTA distribute 
     the slices, then return to their places.

                         DR. SCOTT
               We came here to discuss Eddie.

                         COLUMBIA
               Eddie!

                         FRANK (Silencing her with a gesture)
               It's a rather tender subject....
               Another slice anyone.

     Everybody looks at their food carefully.

     COLUMBIA rises.

                         COLUMBIA
               Excuse me.

     She rushes from from the room with a ghastly cry.

                         DR. SCOTT (turning aside)
               I knew he was in with a bad crowd.  But it
               was worse than I imagined...(He turns back)
               Aliens!

     BRAD & JANET look at each other, then at DR. SCOTT.

                         BRAD & JANET
               Dr. Scott!

                         FRANK
               Go on, Dr. Scott - or should I say
               doctor von Scott.

                         BRAD
               What exactly are you implying?

     FRANK threatens him with the knife.

                         DR. SCOTT
               That's alright Brad.

                         BRAD
               But Doctor Scott...

     DR. SCOTT silences BRAD with a gesture.

120  SONG:          "EDDIE'S TEDDY"

     SCOTT picks up some meat on a fork and regards it.

                         DR. SCOTT
               From the day he was born,
               he was trouble.

               He was the thorn
               In his mutter's side.

               She tried in vain.

121  INT. THE STUDY NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
               But he never caused her
               Nothing but shame.

122/ INT. DINING ROOM    NIGHT
 133
     DR. SCOTT produces scrapbook, opening it at a picture of Eddie's mother.

                         DR. SCOTT
               He left home the day she died.


               From the day she was gone
               All he wanted

     DR. SCOTT turns page to a picture of a record of Elvis, singing Teddy 
     Bear.

                         DR. SCOTT
               Was rock and roll,

     He turns the page to porno. magazine.

               Porn.

     He turns page to show an advertisement for Harley Davidson.

               Und a motorbike.

     He turns to a still of Eddie as an addict

               Shooting up junk

     He turns to reveal a newspaper clipping "Thug bashes woman, 66".

               He was a low down
               Cheap little punk.

     Turns the page to Eddie's mug shot.

               Taking everyone for a ride.

     The page turns again revealing the lyrics.

                         ALL
               When Eddie said
               He didn't like his teddy
               You knew he was a no good kid.

               But when he threatened your life
               With a switch blade knife

                         FRANK
               What a guy

                         JANET
               Makes you cry

                         DR. SCOTT
               Und I did.

134/ INT. COLUMBIA'S ROOM     NIGHT
 135
     She has a large portrait of EDDIE on the wall.

     She is lighting the candles on her dressing table.

                         COLUMBIA
               Everybody shoved him,
               I very nearly loved him.
               I said, hey listen to me,
               Stay sane inside insanity.
               But he locked the door
               And threw away the key.

     She collapses in tears.

136/ INT. DINING ROOM    NIGHT
 137
                         DR. SCOTT
               Making him warn, me,
               In a note

     DR. SCOTT produces the note.

               Which reads.

                         ALL
               What's it say,
               What's it say?

138  INSERT EDDIE'S NOTE

                         EDDIE (VO)
               I'm out of my head
               Oh hurry, or I may be dead.
               They mustn't carry out their evil deeds,
               Yaaaow.

139  INT. DINING ROOM    NIGHT

     DR. SCOTT's hands tremble with the note.  JANET & BRAD are now standing
     one each side of him.

                         ALL
               When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy
               You knew he was a no good kid.

                         DR. SCOTT
               Und when he threatened your life
               With a switch blade knife

                         FRANK
               What guy

                         JANET
               Makes you cry

                         DR. SCOTT

               Und I did.

140  B.C.S. TEDDY as DR. SCOTT produces it.

                         ALL
               Eddie!

141  INT. DINING ROOM    NIGHT

     EDDIE'S TEDDY:  REPRISE

                         ALL
               When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy
               You knew he was a no good kid.

               But when he threatened your life
               With a switch blade knife

                         FRANK
               What a guy

                         ALL
               Woe woe woe

                         JANET
               Makes you cry

                         ALL
               Hey hey hey

                         DR. SCOTT
               Und I did

                         ALL
               EDDIE!

     FRANK suddenly pulls away the tablecloth to reveal a glass coffin
     containing the decomposed remains of EDDIE.

142  INT. DINING ROOM/HALL/STAIRS

     RIFF RAFF & MAGENTA laugh.  JANET screams and runs to ROCKY who hugs 
     her.  BRAD looks shocked.  DR. SCOTT wheels back his wheelchair in 
     disgust, FRANK moves d.s. towards ROCKY.

                         FRANK
               Oh Rocky, how could you!

     JANET runs out, FRANK in pursuit.

     ROCKY smiles wanly.

     Encouraged by this, FRANK smashes JANET across the face with the back of 
     his hand.

                         FRANK
               I'll tell you once,
               Won't tell you twice
               You'd better wise up
               Janet Weiss.

               Y'apple pie
               Don't taste too nice
               You'd better wise up Janet Weiss.

     She runs out of room.

                                        CUT TO

143  INT. CORRIDOR  NIGHT

     JANET runs down corridor - FRANK following her.

                         FRANK
               I've laid the seed
               It should be all you need.

     BRAD appears, pushing DR SCOTT, in hot pursuit.

               You're as sensual
               As a pencil
               Wound up like an 'E' or first string

     JANET arrives at door of laboratory - she can't open it.

     FRANK arrives face to face.

                         FRANK
               When we made it
               Did ya hear a bell ring?

     The door opens - they fall through.

     The door slams in DR SCOTT's face.

144  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     JANET rushes in, down the ramp, with FRANK in pursuit.

                         FRANK
               Y'got a block,
               Take my advice.
               You'd better wise up,
               Janet Weiss.

     DR. SCOTT & BRAD arrive in the lift.  FRANK has circled the tank and 
     arrived at the control panel.

                         FRANK
               The transducer (He slams the handle)
               Will seduce yah.

     DR. SCOTT, BRAD & JANET find they are stuck to the floor.

                         JANET
               My feet - I can' move my feet.

                         DR. SCOTT
               My wheels - My God, I can't
               move my wheels.

                         BRAD
               It's as if we were glued to the spot.

                         FRANK
               You are - so quake with fear,
               you tiny fools.

                         JANET
               We're trapped.

                         FRANK (Moving to her)
               It's something you'll
               Get used to.
               A mental mind fuck
               Can be nice.

                         JANET
               Oh!

     FRANK climbs up the ladder beside the tank.

     (music under this dialogue)

                         DR. SCOTT
               You won't find earth people quite
               the easy mark you imagine.  This
               sonic transducer - it is, I suppose,
               some kind of audio-vibratory,
               physiomolecular transport device....

                         BRAD
               You mean...

                         DR. SCOTT
               Yes Brad.  It's something we ourselves
               have been working on.  But it
               seems our friend here has found a
               way of perfecting it.  A device
               which is capable of breaking down
               solid matter and then projecting it
               through space, and - who knows -
               perhaps even time itself!

                         JANET
               You mean he's gonna send us to
               another planet?

     FRANK leaps off the tank to the floor.

                         FRANK
               Planet.

               Schmanet.

               Janet.

     FRANK circles JANET, testing her thighs.  BRAD struggles in vain.

                         FRANK
               You'd better wise up,
               Janet Weiss.
               You'd better wise up,
               Build your thighs up.
               You'd better wise up.

145  INT. STUDY     NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
               Then she cries out -

146  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     SONG:          "HOT DOG"

     JANET screams out.

                         JANET
               Sto-o-o-o-o-op.

     She cried so loudly that FRANK staggers backwards towards the control
     panel.

     RIFF RAFF & MAGENTA enter through the hole in the tiles - they march
     to behind the tank and then the control panel.

                         FRANK (singing)
               Don't get hot and flustered -
               Use a bit of mustard.

                         BRAD
               You're a hot dog
               But you'd better not
               Try to hurt her,
               Frank Furter.

     FRANK signals to MAGENTA.

     BCS MAGENTA's hand on the transducer switch.

     BRAD is turned into a statute.

                         DR. SCOTT
               You're a hot dog
               But you'd better not
               Try to hurt her,
               Frank Furter.

     FRANK signals, cut to the switch as it is turned on.

     DR. SCOTT is a statue.

                         JANET
               You're a hot dog...

     FRANK signals.  C.S. SWITCH.

     JANET is stone.

147  INT. LABORATORY     NIGHT

     DIALOGUE SEQUENCE.

                         COLUMBIA
               My God!  I can't take any more of this - 
               first you spurn me for Eddie, then you 
               cast him off like an old overcoat for 
               Rocky.  You chew people up and then spit 
               them out - I loved you, do you hear me - 
               I LOVED YOU - And what did it get me - 
               I'll tell you - a big nothing.
               You're like a sponge.  You take, take, 
               take, take!  You drain others of their 
               love and emotions.  Well, I've had enough.  
               You've got to choose between me and Rocky - 
               so named because of the rocks in his head.

     FRANK throws a switch, she turns to stone.

                         FRANK
               It's not easy having a good time.

     He crosses over to RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA

               Even smiling makes my face ache.

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA nod sympathetically.

     He lies on the operating table.

     They massage.

                         FRANK
               My children turn on me.  Rocky's behaving
               just as Eddie did.  Maybe I made a mistake
               in splitting his brain between the two of
               them.

                         MAGENTA
                    (massaging his temples)
               When will we return to Transylvania?
               I grow weary of this world.

                         FRANK
               Magenta, I am indeed grateful to both
               you and your brother RIff Raff - you have
               both served me well - loyalty such as
               yours must be rewarded and you will
               discover when the mood takes me I can
               be quite generous.

     MAGENTA betrays her resentment by digging her fingernails into his neck.

                         MAGENTA
               I ask for nothing, Master.

     FRANK leaps up from the table.

                         FRANK
               And you shall receive it - in abundance.
                    (he goes to the lift)
               Come.  We are ready for the floor show.
                    (he slams the lift gate)
               Our guests will be growing restless.

     The lift moves downwards.

     Left alone in the laboratory MAGENTA and RIFF RAFF smile at each other.

     They make a special sign and leave by a secret passageway.

                                        WIPE TO

148  INT. STUDY     NIGHT

                         NARRATOR
               And so, by some extraordinary coincidence - 
               fate it seems had decided that Brad and 
               Janet should keep that appointment with 
               their friend Dr Everett Scott.  But it was 
               to be in a situation which none of them 
               could have possibly foreseen.  And just a 
               few hours after announcing their engagement, 
               Brad and Janet had both tasted forbidden 
               fruit.  This in itself was proof that their 
               host was a man of little morals - and some 
               persuasion.  What further indignities were 
               they to be subjected to?  And what of the 
               sonic transducer and floor show that had 
               been spoken of?  What indeed?  From what 
               had gone before, it was clear that this 
               was to be no picnic.

                                        WIPE TO

149  INT. BALLROOM (including STAGE)    NIGHT

     MUSIC:    "THE FLOOR SHOW"

     We see the stage at the end of the ballroom with red velvet curtains.

150  BACKSTAGE NIGHT

     FRANK is enjoying dressing the statues which are now on stage.  Each one
     is lovingly fitted with extravagant variations on the stocking and
     suspender belt variety of his own fantasies.

151  INT. BALLROOM (INCLUDING STAGE)    NIGHT

     Footlights glowing on the curtains.

                                        CUT TO

152  INT. BACKSTAGE NIGHT

     FRANK pulls a switch and the curtains open.

                                        CUT TO

153  INT. BALLROOM STAGE NIGHT

     Red velvet curtains open to reveal statues in front of silver drapes.
     The floor is covered with a light mist.

                                        CUT TO

154  INT. BACKSTAGE NIGHT

     FRANK beams and pulls lever.

                                        CUT TO

155  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

     COLUMBIA's statue comes to life.

                         COLUMBIA
               It was great when it all began
               I was a regular Frank fan.
               But it was over when he had the plan
               To start working on a muscle-man.
               Now the only thing that gives me hope
               Is my love of a certain dope
               Rose tints my world keeps me
               Safe from my trouble and pain.

                                        CUT TO

156  INT. BACKSTAGE NIGHT

     FRANK switches.     ROCKY leaps to life.

                                        CUT TO

157  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

                         ROCKY
               I'm just seven hours old
               Truly beautiful to behold
               And somebody should be told
               My libido hasn't been controlled
               Now the only thing I've come to trust
               Is an orgasmic√ärush of lust
               Rose tints my world keeps me
               Safe from my trouble and pain.

     BRAD animated by FRANK

                                        CUT TO

158  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

                         BRAD
               It's beyond me
               Help me Mommy
               I'll be good you'll see
               Take this dream away
               What's this, let's see
               I feel sexy
               What's come over me
               Here it comes again.

                                        CUT TO

159  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

     JANET animates.  She behaves like a sex goddess, completely out of
     control, as if performing in a burlesque show.

                         JANET
               I feel released
               Bad times deceased
               My confidence increased
               Reality is here
               The game has been disbanded
               My mind has been expanded
               It's a gas that Frankie's landed
               His lust is so sincere.

160  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

     We PULL BACK on the whole stage.  The velvets open to reveal the 20th
     Century Fox logo as a stage set.

     At the top of the staircase FRANK appears bathed in light.

     He wears a dazzling version of the national costume and a chiffon cloak
     which billows in the breeze from a wind machine.  He is reminiscent of
     a 30's film star.

                         FRANK
               What ever happened to Fay Wray
               That delicate satin-draped frame
               As it clung to her thigh
               How I started to cry
               For I wanted to be dressed just the same.

                                        CUT TO

161  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

     The floor opens to reveal a swimming pool glistening with chlorine
     and glitter.  He beckons the GUESTS.

     In their drugged state they comply with his every wish.


                         FRANK
               Give yourself over to absolutely pleasure
               Swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh
               Erotic nightmares
               Beyond any measure
               And sensual daydreams
               To treasure forever.

     FRANK enters the pool.

               Can't you just see it.
               Can't you just see it.

     They begin to immerse themselves in the pool.

161A           Don't dream it.  Be it.

                         ALL
               Don't dream it.  Be it.

     DR SCOTT animates belatedly.

     He observes the orgy occurring in the pool.

                         DR. SCOTT
               Ach, we've got to get out of this trap
               before this decadence saps our wills.
               I've got to be strong and try to hang
               on.  Or else my mind, may well snap.

     The wind machine blows the blanked from his lap and we see legs, 
     stockings and a suspender belt.  As in a miracle he can walk again.

                         DR. SCOTT
               Und my life will be lived,
               For the thri-i-i-i-ill...

     BRAD surfaces, his face betraying consternation.

                         BRAD
               It's beyond me
               Help me Mo-ommy.

     He is pulled back into the pool.

     A thrilled JANET now emerges.

                         JANET
               God bless Lilly Saint Cyr.

     FRANK breaks through the water on a lift from ROCKY.

     SONG:          FLOOR SHOW PT. 3 - WILD AND UNTAMED THING.

                         FRANK
               My my my my
               I'm a wild and an untamed thing.
               I'm a bee with a deadly sting.
               Get a hit and your mind goes ping.
               Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing.
               So let the party and the sounds rock on.
               Gonna shake it till the life has gone.

               Rose tint my world
               Keep me safe from my trouble and pain.

     FRANK dives into the pool.

     During the chorus the whole group are diving in and out of the pool in
     a frenetic water ballet.

                         ALL
               I'm a wild and an untamed thing
               I'm a bee with a deadly sting.
               Get a hit and your mind goes ping
               Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing.

     They emerge from the pool and form a kick line.

               So let the part and the sounds rock on
               Gonna shake it till the life has gone.
               Rose tint my world
               Keep me safe from my trouble and pain.

162  INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     The doors at the opposite end of the ballroom open.

     SONG:          "RIFF RAFF'S RECIT"

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA now dressed in military style space suits, face
     FRANK from the opposite end of the ballroom.

     They applaud slowly.

     RIFF RAFF has a ray gun.

     The characters on stage freeze - terrified.

     It's a showdown across the ballroom.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Frank N. Furter
               It's all over
               Your mission is a failure.

     FRANK looks stunned.

               Your life style's too extreme.

     FRANK is guilt-stricken.

               I'm your new Commander.
               You are now my prisoner.

     The GUESTS scramble for the safety of the wings.

               We return to Transylvania
                    (he turns to Magenta)
               Prepare the transit beam.

     MAGENTA turns to leave.

                         FRANK
               Wait!  I can explain.

163  INT. STAGE     NIGHT

     SONG:          "I'M COMING HOME"

     FRANK moves slowly to centre stage.  During the song he adjusts 
     footlight controls to give him what effects he requires.

     The others help FRANK out by singing from the wings.  COLUMBIA operates
     a spotlight.

     BRAD closes silver curtains.

                         FRANK
               On the day I went away.

                         GUESTS
               Goodbye

                         FRANK
               Was all I had to say

                         GUESTS
               Now I

                         FRANK
               Want to come again and stay

                         GUESTS
               Oh my, my,

                         FRANK
               Smile and that will mean I may

     He kicks on cloud projection.  Blue skies appear.

                         FRANK
               I've seen blue skies
               Through the tears in my eyes
               And I realise
               I'm going home
               I'm going home

     FRANK falls on his knees.

               Everywhere it's been the same

                         GUESTS
               Feeling

                         FRANK
               Like I'm outside in the rain

                         GUESTS
               Wheeling

                         FRANK
               Free to try and find a game

                         GUESTS
               Dealing

                         FRANK
               Cards for sorrow,
               Cards for pain.

     DR SCOTT switches on wind machine.

               I've seen blue skies
               Through the tears in my eyes
               And I realise
               I'm going home
               I'm going home.
               I'm going home.

164  INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     MAGENTA who during all this has been filing her nails, looks up at FRANK
     who is in an attitude of supplication.

                         MAGENTA
               How sentimental.

     RIFF RAFF moves slowly to the stage.

                         RIFF RAFF
               And also presumptuous of you.  You
               see when I said "we" were to return
               to Transylvania, I referred only to
               Magenta and myself.

     FRANK looks appalled.

     The GUESTS are deeply troubled, realising that they also are not part of
     the "We".

                         RIFF RAFF
               You see, you are to remain here,
               in spirit anyway.

     He produces a ray gun.

                         DR SCOTT
               Great Heavens, that's a laser.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Yes, Dr Scott.  A laser capable of
               emitting a beam of pure anti-matter.

                         BRAD
               You mean you're going to kill him?
               What's his crime?

                         DR SCOTT
               You saw what became of Eddie.
               Society must be protected.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Exactly, Dr Scott.  Now Frank N.
               Furter, your time has come.  Say
               goodbye to all this and hello to oblivion.

     FRANK raises himself to his full height.

                         FRANK
               Do your worse - inferior one.

     As RIFF RAFF pulls the trigger, COLUMBIA dashes between them.

     She is killed instantly.

     RIFF RAFF fires again at FRANK.

     FRANK takes a leap fro the rope on the curtain.  The entire proscenium 
     crashes under the weight.  And FRANK is crushed to death among the
     velvet and glittered facia.

     ROCKY breaks down completely.  Although he despised FRANK, he was all he
     had in the world.

     He rushes to the body and cradles it in his arms.

     RIFF RAFF can stand no more.

     He fires a blast of laser beam at ROCKY who starts climbing the stairway
     towards the fox skyline.

     RIFF RAFF fires again and again.

     With the body of FRANK in his arms, ROCKY beats on his chest and lets
     out a wild sound like a giant beast of the jungle.

     RIFF RAFF fires a sustained beam.

     ROCKY climbs to the top of the Fox sculpture.

     RIFF RAFF fires again and again.

     They crash to their deaths.

                         BRAD
               Good God.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Yes.

                         JANET
               You've killed them.

     MAGENTA has found the entire sequence of events quite distasteful.

                         MAGENTA
               I thought you liked them.  They liked you.

                         RIFF RAFF
               They didn't like me.  They never liked me.

                         DR SCOTT
                    (he tries a calming hand)
               You did right.

                         RIFF RAFF
               A decision had to be made.

                         DR SCOTT
                    (the big sell-out)
               You're OK by me.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Dr Scott I'm sorry about your nephew.

                         DR SCOTT
               Yes, well perhaps it was for the best.

                         RIFF RAFF
               You must leave now Dr Scott while it's
               still possible.  We are about to beam
               the entire house back to the planet of
               transexual in the galaxy of Transylvania.
               Go now.

     The GUESTS flee down the ballroom and out the door.

     We see the laughing figures of RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA making a special
     sign to each other.

                                        CUT TO

165  INT. CASTLE CORRIDORS    NIGHT

     We see BRAD and JANET fleeing with DR SCOTT following behind.

165A INT. BALLROOM  NIGHT

     RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA's laughter has subsided.

                         RIFF RAFF
               Our noble mission is almost completed my
               most beautiful sister, soon we will return
               to the moon-drenched shores of our
               "androgenous" planet.

                         MAGENTA
               Ah - sweet Transexual - land of night -
               to sing and dance once more to your dark
               refrains.  To take that step to the right...

                         RIFF RAFF
               But it's the pelvic thrust
               that really drives you insane.

                         MAGENTA
               And our World will do
               the Time Warp again.

165B EXT. CASTLE    DAWN

     There is a huge explosion.

166  EXT. CASTLE    DAWN

     We see the entire castle surrounded by a giant beam of light and then
     vanish into space.

     During the explosion sequence the film reverts optically to black and
     white.

                                        DISSOLVE TO

167  EXT. THE CRATER     DAY

     SONG:          "SUPER-HEROES"

     BRAD, JANET, and DR SCOTT's bodies are scattered on three sides
     surrounding a crater where the castle once was.

     The scene is arid and deserted.  There are remnants of DR SCOTT's
     wheelchair, EDDIE's coffin and broken objects from the laboratory.

     BRAD, tattered and bleeding, lifts himself up.

                         BRAD
               I've done a lot
               God knows I've tried
               To find the truth I've even lied
               But all I know is down inside.

     DR SCOTT drags himself to his knees.

                         BRAD & DR SCOTT
               I'm bleeding.

                         JANET
                    (revives)
               And super heroes
               Come to feast
               To taste the flesh
               Not yet deceased
               And al I know
               Is still the beast

                         TRIO
               Is feeding.

     The three of them stand shakily on the perimeter of the crater.

     All that is left is dust and sand and wind and the sun.

     The CAMERA PANS from face to face in a circular movement getting faster
     and faster as the trio sing a chorale of hopelessness.

                                        DISSOLVE TO

168  INT. STUDY     NIGHT

     The CAMERA has spun into a blur but focusses on a spinning globe
     of the earth on the NARRATOR's desk.

     The NARRATOR puts his hand on the globe, stopping it.

     He is standing over his lectern reading from his book like a preacher
     in a pulpit.

                         NARRATOR
               And crawling on the planet's face
               Some insects called the human race
               Lost in time, and lost in space
               And meaning.

     He turns and goes to the door of the study.

     He switches off the light.

                         VOICES OFF
               Meaning.

     He leaves the study, shutting the door.

     It's almost dark in the study.  Only a sinister glow inside the globe
     of the earth remains.

169  CREDIT SEQUENCE

     SONG:          "SCIENCE FICTION, DOUBLE-FEATURE"

     The cast credits roll up.

                         VOICE OVER
               Science Fiction - double-feature
               Frank has built and lost his creature
               Darkness has conquered Brad and Janet
               The servants gone to a distant planet
               Oh - at the late night double-feature
               Picture Show - I want to go - Ohh -
               To the late night double-feature picture show.


                            THE END